```
THE ART OF LOVE 153 |
```
True love is love that does not wait for someone to show their love to you
before you show your love to them. Jesus died for us first, therefore showing how
much he loves us through his actions. We are to love others this way.

### Love will remain! (vv. 8–13)

“...prophecies...will cease, ...tongues...will be stilled, ...knowledge...will
pass away.” These three are partial in nature and are needed while we live on this
earth. These are ways in which the Lord can communicate to his church.

In verse 10, the word “perfection” in the Greek carries with it the meaning of
“end,” “fulfillment,” “completeness,” and “maturity.” It refers to the day when we
are standing before the throne of God, when we see Jesus face-to-face. This is the
only time when prophecy will no longer be needed, tongues will not be needed,
and knowledge will not be required, because he who is all-knowing, yesterday,
today, and forever will be right before us.

The only thing that will be left is love—love for God and love in relationship
with others.

Take notice of how Paul says, “for we know in part and prophesy in part, but
when perfection comes, the imperfect disappears.” Perfection will only come when
we are with the Perfect One in Heaven. When Jesus comes, “perfection comes,”
and then and only then will the imperfect disappear. When we are in the presence
of Jesus in Heaven, our bodies will be new, and our sinful nature will be gone
entirely.

What we see and experience in our daily lives is a distorted, dim view of
what love is. Paul takes two analogies “with childish ways” and “the reflection
in a mirror” to help us understand that while we are on this earth, we only know
Jesus in part. However, when we see Jesus face-to-face in Heaven, we will know
him fully, even as we are fully known by him.

Faith and hope are essential in our walk with the Lord and relationships with
others. But love? Love is the greatest and will remain forever. Why? Because God
is love (1 John 4:16). He chose to love us. We can choose to love Him and love
others. Discovering the lost art of relationship absolutely requires the building
block of love.

### I Love You, But I Don’t Agree with You. Now What?

Is it possible to love someone and not agree with them on deep beliefs? At
face value, we would probably say “yes” immediately. However, when put into
a position to live it out, we might have difficulty showing that love.