---
title: The Art of Humility
---

THE ART OF HUMILITY
{: class="page__topic"}

the good things we are experiencing and the areas where we need prayer. We know
the trust is a solid brick wall, and it is easy to share without fear of criticism or
rejection. We can each speak truth into the other’s life and understand we have the
other’s best interest at heart.

I can’t even begin to tell you how much my friendship with Brian has meant
to me and the lessons I have learned because of it. One primary lesson is the
fact that people in healthy relationships need to be able to speak and receive the
truth about the hurts they have experienced, whether done on purpose or not.

My actions do affect others, sometimes positively, but other times negatively.
Someone does not _have to_ tolerate my behavior just because it is “who I am.”
Of course, they accept and love me for who I am, but my negative behavior does
not need to be tolerated. Of course, I do not _need_ to change to gain their accep-
tance. However, Jesus tells us that we need to _“love others as we love ourselves,”_
which means I should ask myself how I would want to be treated before I plow
forward and hurt my loved ones. Would I want them to respect my relational
boundaries? _Absolutely!_

Changing my behavior does not mean I am changing who I am at the core.
It means I am honoring someone else above myself for the sake of the relation-
ship. Therefore, respecting relational boundaries, especially of a close friend,
means accepting the fact that I can negatively affect the lives of others and lose
a friend if I remain indignant that others _must_ tolerate my behaviors that have
negative consequences in the relationship. I’m so glad Brian was able to tell me
truthfully what I had done so I could apologize and correct my behavior going
forward. Which brings me to the second lesson I learned because of Brian.

### Speaking Truth Requires Emotional Consent

I’ll never forget the night when I opened up and shared a deep secret with
Brian over the phone. It was one of the hardest nights of my life. However, he
was there with no judgment, just listening, encouraging, and not trying to fix it
or me. He listened with a heavy concern for my well-being. That was a humbling
night, to say the least.

We had another conversation over the phone (I cannot remember when)
the details of which have been a constant reminder to me of the importance and
command found in James 4:10—”to humble myself before God and in due time
He will lift me up.”

It was one of our semi-annual to quarterly check-ins. We were sharing our
normal ups and downs, except this time Brian had to share something specifi-
cally with me regarding a dream he had. After my joking with him that the Bible