```
THE ART OF LOVE 149 |
```
Love is _kind._ When you would rather respond in vengeance,
but instead you decide to show kindness, this is an act of love.
Love _does not envy, does not boast, is not proud._ You make
a choice to be content with what you have, to be thankful for
others, and to look at yourself with sober judgment—love.
Love is _not rude._ When your first reaction is to be sarcastic and
snarky, but you decide to lock up the lips, you have expressed love.
Love is _not self-seeking._ If you actually look out for the needs
of others, not just your own, this is loving others.
Love is _not easily angered._ Ouch, that one hurt a little, didn’t
it? It takes a decision to love to suppress the anger that rises so
quickly to an unwelcome event or comment.
Love _does not keep a record of wrongs._ When you are in a
disagreement, this is the decision _not_ to bring up all of the past
hurts or offenses the other person has done against you. Love
is a continual choice to forgive.
Love _does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth._ Have
you ever heard gossip that you know is not true? Love is when
you choose to push away the lie and gossip to stand with the
truth.
There are qualities of love that should _always_ be present. If these qualities
are _not_ present in an action, a relationship, or a decision, then it is not love!

Love _always_ protects.
Love _always_ trusts.
Love _always_ hopes.
Love _always_ perseveres.
If you love someone, you choose to protect them; you choose to trust
them; you choose to hope for the best; you choose to persevere through
difficult challenges. If we put all of these into effect, we can always count on
love. It will not fail us.

Now, how many of these are dependent on the recipient of your love? If
you answered “none of them,” you would be correct. As much as you decide
to show these qualities, others must also decide if they want to show them to
you. However, you do not need them to be reciprocated to love someone. This
means we can choose to love a complete stranger and provide a need for them.
We can choose to love someone that has been rude to us.

