---
title: The Art of Relationship
---

THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

don’t view you the same way. It has probably happened to all of us.

If there is a mutual friendship, a friend at this level will sense when something
is amiss in your life. When you are down, they know it. When you are happy,
they celebrate with you. When you are sad, they listen and allow you to cry—but
not for long. When you need a push, they provide motivation. When you vouch
for your friend, you believe they will represent themselves in an honorable way,
knowing that your own reputation is on the line when you call them a friend.

At some point, and no one can really say for sure when this happens in any
relationship if at all, you may move on to the highest level of relationship _—family._

### **8. Someone you can call “family”**

Someone you can call “family” is someone you can do life with where the
boundaries are all but removed. Sure, you still respect the relational boundaries,
but truth, honesty, opinions, issues— _nothing_ is off the table for discussion here.

You know that even if you yell, get into a disagreement, or become separated
by circumstances or miles, you would be there for each other. If it is possible to
be there in person, then you do it. But if not, you are there for them emotionally.
Miles should _never_ be an excuse not to pick up a phone and talk about your
feelings, circumstances, issues, or to pray together. After all, you are family!

> _“One loyal friend is worth ten thousand relatives.”_
> ~ Euripides
{: class="has-text-centered"}

Some people in our lives describe the family as only those who are blood-re-
lated or married into. I would like to blow that definition right out of the water.
Sure, being blood-related or related by marriage technically makes you family.
But it does not mean you have developed a deep and meaningful relationship
that has been tested through all eight of these levels.

For example, I found out one summer that I have a cousin whom I have
_never_ met. I just heard about her and saw her on Facebook. We are not at the
highest level of relationship just because we have a common bloodline. It will
take time, face-to-face connection, and a mutual desire to walk through the
levels of relationship.

I am still and will always be a student of relationship. As you read on, I will
dive into certain aspects of relationship by sharing stories of people who have
influenced me and taught me by their actions and behaviors. These are people
who I have allowed to impact my life in profound ways. One of these areas is
true friendship, which is what I want to share with you in the next chapter. Let’s
continue on the journey!