---
title: The Art of Structural Integrity
---
THE ART OF STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY
{: class="page__topic"}

above. A prototype is an original or first model of something from which other
forms are copied or developed; a first or early example that is used as a model
for what comes later.^18

The kindergartners created a prototype early on during the eighteen
minutes they were given. This gave them something to build upon. They used
the marshmallow at each stage of the process to see whether their structure
could withstand the weight of the marshmallow and then used that prototype
to build it even higher.

Almost all of the other teams built their structure and at the very end of
the eighteen minutes decided to put the marshmallow on top only to find that
their structure was not able to hold the marshmallow. A crisis followed, and
people had to act fast to try to beat the clock.

When teams were introduced to the idea of a prototype and incentiv-
ized with a prize at the end, teams excelled in this process. They understood
that collaboration was more important than who had the idea—they worked
together and developed stronger structures.

This whole idea sounds silly until we look at our own relationships. What
prototype or model do our relationship(s) with others follow after? Are we
building on a healthy prototype, or are we going down the path of relationship
and it collapses because someone placed a marshmallow on it—they introduced
a challenge, difficulty, or a heavily-weighted issue?

Jesus gave us the perfect prototype for healthy relationships in the Scrip-
tures. He offered us the example of building relationships based on humility and
the fruits of the Spirit, which are by-products of being connected to God and
being “one” in unity with Him. When we are _in unity_ with God, His relational
attributes will not only be evident, but should become the foundation of all
our relationships—love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,
gentleness, and self-control (Gal. 5:22–23).

Each one of these fruits is foundational to healthy relationships. All of
them have to do with how we react to others, but only one of them defines
for us what our response should be, not our reaction—self-control. It takes
self-control to respond with love, joy, peace, patience, and so on.

What would it look like if our relationships at home, work, friendships,
and so forth, were structurally sound? We only need to look at Jesus. We can be
sure that a relationship based on the example of how Jesus lived would be able
to withstand whatever weight is placed on it.

Think about a bridge, like the Golden Gate in San Francisco, California.
Let’s say that a relationship is also like a bridge. A bridge spans a gap between