---
title: Appendix
ischapter: true
---

## H Appendix 1 I
{: class="chapter__subtitle"}

### Foot-washing Service Script

The following is the script I read during a foot-washing service conducted
between a group of pastors and the leadership team of Successful Christian
Fellowship as referenced in chapter 11. I hope it inspires you to perform a
foot-washing service of your own someday. It was profoundly significant and
moving.

This was no small thing that Jesus was trying to show his disciples. He
was teaching them that no one in the body of Christ is greater than Jesus
himself. If Jesus could get down on his knees as a servant would and
wash his disciple’s feet, then surely, we can do the same for each other.

As a matter of fact, he even said to us, “Now that I, your Lord and
Teacher, have washed your feet, you also should wash one another’s
feet. I have set you an example that you should do as I have done for
you.” (John 13:12–17)

There are two specific words I have in my heart that I believe
have come from the Lord as a word of blessing over the leadership of
Successful Christian Fellowship.

This example we are giving today is not to be taken as a trivial
spectacle, but as a sincere, meaningful expression of our duty to each
other as the body of Christ.

I don’t have any clue how you will receive this today, those who
are watching this. I do know that for those who are involved, it is a
truly humbling experience. As a matter of fact, for those receiving it,
you will probably feel like you should be the one washing. I am sure
that you would do the same for us if the opportunity presented itself.

First, to the leadership of Successful Christian Fellowship: we
want to communicate more than anything else to you our love for
you as brothers and sisters in the Lord. We are part of the same family