| 104 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

me that sometimes we need to disconnect from unhealthy relationships to keep
our life on the right path. Verses like:

“Bad company corrupts good character.” (1 Cor. 15:33)
“Walk with the wise and become wise; associate with fools
and get in trouble.” (Prov. 13:20)
“Stay away from fools, for you won’t find knowledge on their
lips.” (Prov. 14:7)
That day is etched in my memory. I wish I could say I always stayed away
from doing stupid things after that day, but there were many tempting times
when I allowed others to influence me, which when mixed with my desire to be
accepted, equated into making dumb mistakes and getting in trouble.

You could say that my unhealthy relationships created obstacles for me to
live a healthy life. Sometimes we just need to disconnect from them, perhaps for
a long or short time, or even permanently. But how can we know which degree
of disconnection is warranted? It starts with acknowledging and accepting the
reasons _why_ we need connection with others in the first place, and what kinds
of relationships we _should_ be connected to. We need to know what healthy
relationships look like.

If you remember from chapter two, there are four reasons to connect with
other people:

1. _It benefits me._ In a mutual relationship, it just makes sense that
    it would be beneficial to me personally. Otherwise, why would
    I even want to connect? Even if I am helping someone and it
    seems one-sided, I benefit from the feeling I get when I do it.
2. _It benefits you._ In a mutual relationship, I must be concerned
    with your well-being. Even if I am the recipient of what you can
    provide, in return you would benefit from the feeling you get
    when you do something for me.
3. _It should benefit others._ If working properly, our mutual
    relationship should eventually have positive consequences for
    others around us. With mutual respect and dignity for each
    other, we see the value in others and do what we can to help
    them, especially because of what we have experienced together.
4. _It pleases God._ To love your neighbor as you love yourself is
    not only the second greatest commandment Jesus gave us but
    the purpose of why we were created.
So anyone who meets these criteria is someone you should consider forming

