---
title: Overcoming Unhealthy Relationships
---

OVERCOMING UNHEALTHY RELATIONSHIPS
{: class="page__topic"}

person felt obligated to respond immediately and felt like they had to fix every
issue that arose because of the text, call, or email. After all, this was a close
relationship! This family member’s actions disrupted this person’s life to the
point where the stress was overwhelming and put a significant strain on the
relationship. No matter how this person communicated to their family member,
they did not respect the boundaries they tried to set in place. My recommenda-
tion was to temporarily block the family member’s phone number from calls and
texts, and also to block their email address—both for two weeks.

At first, this person was very unsure if they could even go for three days.
Admittedly, it was challenging. However, even if you decided to go cold turkey
from caffeine or sugar, you will possibly experience headaches, shakes, and
cravings for at least three to five days. When you break through the wall of the
side effects, it becomes easier to focus, set boundaries, and find ways to clearly
communicate those boundaries in a loving, dignified way. It also becomes easier
to enforce them.

When we met two weeks later, this person was ecstatic and said, “You
would be so proud of me! I was able to go the full two weeks!” The result
of the two-week hiatus was an ability to set healthy boundaries, which were
heard loud and clear through radio-silence. The family member now understood
that the boundaries were not merely suggestions. This person broke away for a
temporary time to bring reconciliation. The coachee felt like they had regained
control of their time and life.

Of course, the process had not been completed, as this person still needed to
go back to their family member and reconnect. Reconciliation needed to take place
along with re-communicating the boundaries and rules of engagement. In the end,
this person’s connection to their family member became healthier and stronger.

Sometimes it is essential to disconnect when things are going poorly in the
relationship, and especially when your relationship with God is suffering because
of it. A ministry started by Saddleback Church called Celebrate Recovery is very
proficient in helping people accomplish this disconnection. You can find these
groups in your local area and visit if you feel you are surrounded by dysfunction
and cannot break the cycle.

> “Walk with the wise and become wise; associate with fools and
> get in trouble.” (Prov. 13:20)

### Steps to Take for Disconnection

We have spent _a lot_ of time understanding why our relationship to God and
others can be damaged. The question is now how to disconnect from unhealthy