---
title: The Art of Structural Integrity
ischapter: true
---

20.
{: class="chapter__number"}

## The Art of Structural Integrity
{: class="chapter__subtitle"}

> Structural integrity: The ability of something to hold together under
> its own weight and whatever load is placed on it or in it.^16
{: class="has-text-center"}

Each building is designed to hold its own weight of construction and anything
placed inside of it. I’m sitting in my home right now and trusting that those
who built the house followed the design of the architect, put enough screws and
nails in place, and built the house without “cutting corners.” If the house is not
built to withstand its own weight, then a strong wind or even the furniture I put
inside can weaken its connections and cause it to crumble—with me inside of it.
{: class="chapter__first-p"}

Tom Wujec, the founder of The Wujec Group and frequent TED Conference
speaker, designed a teamwork challenge called the “Marshmallow Challenge.”
Teams were given twenty sticks of spaghetti, one yard of tape, one yard of
string, and one marshmallow. They had eighteen minutes to build the tallest
free-standing structure that could hold the weight of the marshmallow on top.
The marshmallow could not be eaten or divided up into different parts, but
they could utilize all the other items to build the tallest structure that would
hold the marshmallow.

Sound easy? Think again. This challenge has been given to executives,
CEOs, teachers, college students, and even kindergartners. Which group do you
think scored the best?

_The kindergartners!_

Actually, the teams that scored the highest were architects and engineers,
but among all the others, kindergartners scored the best. They understood that
the structural integrity of the spaghetti/tape/string tower was best when the
structural integrity of the team was sound. How can that be?

With kindergartners, no one was trying to gain power. No one was trying
to be the one who got the credit. There was the task, the team, and the goal to