---
title: The Art of Humility
ischapter: true
---

16.
{: class="chapter__number"}

### The Art of Humility
{: class="chapter__subtitle"}

The ability to speak truth into someone’s life only comes by permission and
is most effective only through a relationship built on trust. But it absolutely
requires a healthy dose of humility to both give and receive it.
{: class="chapter__first-p"}

I learned these truths through many friendships, but one of the most
memorable times someone has spoken into my life came through my best friend
from college, Brian Coscia. The University of Valley Forge (formerly Valley
Forge Christian College) is a small university in rural Pennsylvania just outside
of Philadelphia in a town called Phoenixville. The school only had about five
hundred students in total when I arrived in 1992. Some of the best Philly cheese
steak sandwiches were just across the street from the University at Bob’s Haven
Pizza & Deli. You could experience the best milkshakes on the planet at T.D.
Alfredo’s Pizzeria downtown in Phoenixville

The university was moved in 1976 to the former Valley Forge General
Hospital on the property of a former military hospital base. The dorms were old
buildings where some of the rooms may have been former offices, but most were
former beds for patients. I am certain my first room at the school was a closet of
some kind. It was at the end of the hallway just next to the door that led to the
exit at the end of the building.

The men’s dorms had community showers on each floor where six to eight
showerheads lined the inside of a white-and-green-tile room. This is where I
learned to take quick and efficient showers at the times when there were not a
lot of guys going in and out.

Brian’s room was at the other end of the hall and was a much larger room
he had all by himself. We had no laundry room at the dorm, so weekly trips to
the local laundry mat became customary. We would take our laundry to wash it,
grab a pizza at the shop next door, and either do homework, talk, or just hang out.

If you are from the east coast, you will remember a convenience store