---
title: The Art of Influence
---
THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

Victor Coetzee had been born in Zimbabwe, formerly Rhodesia (as he
would always say). He met his wife, Suzanne, and they became missionaries to
Puerto Rico. They served there faithfully until answering the call to come to the
inner city of New Jersey and take over a small church in Paterson.

By now, you probably have a picture in your mind of what he looks like.
It may blow your mind to know that he was a white man from Africa, who had
become a missionary to Puerto Rico (fluent in Spanish) and moved to the inner
city to lead a small group of blossoming leaders. In his time there, he led one of
the most diverse groups of people (in status, background, and ethnicity) that I
have experienced to date.

It could not have been more strategic for him to be in this position. Paterson
was one of the tougher cities in New Jersey where not many people chose to
live. As a matter of fact, I always said growing up that I would never live in New
Jersey. Yet there I was living twenty minutes west of Manhattan as a white kid
from Maryland with _a lot_ to learn. I learned more in the first year of ministry
with Pastor Coetzee than I had in all my years prior.

Before getting recruited as the new youth pastor of the Lighthouse, the
board had a stack of resumes on their conference table made up of two eight-foot
tables. After hiring me, they each told me in their own way that my resume had
just “risen to the top,” and under the leadership of Pastor Coetzee, believed I was
the person that God wanted for this church.

Even now, I believe it was this church that I needed. The example and
growth for me personally, emotionally, and spiritually, especially during this first
year outside of college, has shaped me and helped me to become the person I
am today. Pastor Coetzee taught me some significant lessons about the art of
influencing others, which I would like to share with you.

### Teaching by Example

One Saturday in May, in a park just north of where the church was located,
the families of the church converged into this green space with trees, grass, and
playground equipment. I met Pastor Coetzee there early and found him unloading
a van full of chairs and tables.

Some might wonder why a pastor of this size church was doing manual
labor. For me, I didn’t ask. I just reached in and started to take the load and stand
beside him. He could have delegated that responsibility, but he didn’t.

In a way, though, he actually did. He was teaching through his actions. He
was exemplifying what he wanted all of us to do. He didn’t see himself as a leader
above the work, but as a servant to all who God had placed under his leadership.