```
THE ART OF FORGIVENESS 37 |
```
When I read this passage, I like to add a little inflection to Peter’s voice as if
he is exasperated. It can be compared to us getting frustrated that we have offered
forgiveness, but the person who offended us continues to insult us. Jesus shows the
nature of where our hearts should be when it comes to reconciliation.

This passage also tells me that we will always remember, at the most
inopportune times, which we have been hurt by and how we have been hurt or
offended. When we are reminded (and we will be), we are to forgive yet again as
if it were the first time. Why? We are designed not to forget. Our brains are wired
to remember. From birth, our brains retain information, and as we get older, we
can recall this information because of a smell, a sound, or something we see or
touch that reminds us of a past event, emotion, or even a hurt/offense. When we
are reminded, it can trigger the anger emotion all over again.

Forgiveness is a powerful tool. In any relationship, you _will_ need to utilize
this tool if you desire to keep these relationships. It is difficult to understand the
magnitude of the power of forgiveness if you do not realize the need for it and
how it can help you develop deep, meaningful relationships. Forgiveness is not just
apologizing and moving on. There is a difference between saying, “I’m sorry” (an
apology), and “Will you please forgive me?” (forgiveness). Let’s take a look.

### Apology Versus Forgiveness

I can remember a situation where I had committed to moving some boxes
out of a room so another person who needed that space could prepare for an
event coming up a few days later. I dropped the ball on my commitment and did
not move them.

This person called me early in the morning and asked if I could come and
move them as they needed the room to get set up. When I arrived, they had
already been moved out of the room and were being transported to another
location. I jumped right in and began to not only move my items but other items
as well.

When I saw this person, I walked right over to them and could tell they
were not happy with me. They tensed right up. I had a choice to make. Would
I just say I was sorry, or would I go the extra step? What happened next was
visibly noticeable.

I said, “I am so sorry for missing this. It was a drop on my part, and I should
have moved them.” Just as soon as this person was about to say something, I
added another line, “Will you please forgive me for missing this one?” Their
body language changed from “ready for the fight,” to “please help us get the rest
of the items moved.”