```
THE ART OF RELATIONSHIP 55 |
```
someone who doesn’t want to could cause a rift in the developing relationship.
We must remember we are becoming vulnerable to them learning the negative
things in us as well, and they too get to decide what they want to accept or not.
This works both ways.

### **6. Know why someone is the way they are**

At this level, you start (and continue to learn) about _why_ this person does
life the way they do it. Why do they respond in specific ways to specific events
or circumstances? Why is it they may react positively or negatively to the same
situation that someone else may generally react the opposite? Why do they think
the way they do?

This level is where you have the realization they are what and who they
say they are; a level of trust has been established, and you enjoy them. It may
be common for you both to finish each other’s sentences, or for you to be able
to speak on behalf of that friend because you know how they may respond. **If
you do,** do so with great care. A mistake here could set back your relationship
or even stall it.

You have reached a level of familiarity and comfort with one another as
you have had more experiences and time together. You are getting to understand
why they do the things they do and you are good with it. It’s more than likely
you have already started calling them “friend.”

### **7. Someone you can call “friend”**

Here is where there is a revelation of the nature of your relationship and the
feeling that as long as you both maintain healthy communication and boundar-
ies, you could be friends for a very long time.

We will dig into friendship in the next chapter, but a friend is someone who
accepts you just as you are but is not afraid to call you on your issues. There is a
trust that has grown to the point where you can share personal and confidential
information and believe it will stop there. You can also rest assured they will not
judge you for your actions, but share their opinion in love to give you a healthy,
balanced view of you. Mutual accountability is very much a part of this level.

We throw the word “friend” around _way_ too often. Many refer to some
relationships in their lives as friends when they are actually still at the acquain-
tance level. “Friend” is a term that should only be used when it is mutually
understood that this is the nature of the relationship. There is nothing worse
than when you view someone as your “friend” and all this it implies, but they