To my ever-questioning, always-loving friend, Brian Griswold, thank you
for being the example of not being afraid to go for it! Your quest for the answers
to questions has inspired me to always dig deeper in relationship.

To Gavin Brown, thank you, my friend, for being authentic, for loving life
and laughter, for helping me see the funny in most everything, for praying with
me, and encouraging me with your life. So glad we shared so many moments that
will be forever in my memory.

Thank you, Steve Preston, for believing in me, being available to teach me,
mentor me, and encourage me even in some of the darkest moments. You taught
me so much about relationships, just by being a friend—and never afraid to hold
me accountable!

To our incredible friends, Dan and Teresa Houk. There are not many
relationships one will have in life where you can share ANYTHING and never
feel like you shouldn’t. You both are that for Tania and I. Thank you for giving
us your love, care, prayers, and friendship, and for the encouragement to FINISH
this book and get it into as many hands as possible! We love you so much!

To our wonderful friends, John and Laura Volinsky. It is so great to have
people in life that like to have fun but are there for you when it counts. John,
thank you for giving me a chance in ministry and for being a champion for me.
You both are prayer warriors, and we love you!

For my good friend Dr. Sam Huddleston. Your example in leadership and
how to be in relationship with others has been more than a blessing in my life.
Being able just to call or text and say what is on my mind is a breath of fresh air.
I am so grateful for your friendship and for how God has connected us.

Thank you, Rick Bloom, for guiding me to renew my credentials when I
moved from Santa Maria to Los Angeles. You were a pivotal part of my continu-
ing in the ministry and having the tools necessary to move forward!

To my friends Joe Taybron, Charlie Harrison, and Scott Lewis. The endless
amount of connections because of my friendships with you are still becoming
known! Thank you for including me in your circles of influence!

To my editor, Jennifer Edwards. Thank you for your incredible expertise
and believing in this project to take the time to organize it, edit it, and make it
way better and understandable! This book cannot be what it is without your
influence!

Thank you, Susie Aguirre, for putting your fingerprint of design on the
cover and for taking the time to help capture what the _Lost Art of Relation-
ship_ is all about—authentic relationships with others in awe of God, sharing in
connection the way God intended.

```
xiv
```
