---
title: The Art of Humility
---
THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

named Wawa. Late at night, Brian and I would order a large pizza, and when we
went to pick it up, we would make a Wawa run to get a drink and a pint of Ben
& Jerry’s ice cream.

I _cannot_ imagine having half of a large 18-inch pizza and an entire pint of
Ben & Jerry’s now! I still cannot believe I shoved 2,000 calories in my gullet that
late at night and still maintained a thin frame.

Brian and I became best friends. Our birthdays are in July only five days
apart. There were not many things we did apart from each other. We talked and
prayed together and confided in each other on many issues. We had a blast doing
things we probably shouldn’t have done. We played gin rummy, talked about girl
issues, and studied together. We had some other friends we included in our circle
as well, and we had a lot of fun with them too.

There was one boundary that I learned I should not cross with Brian,
which I found out the hard way. I found out about this boundary when he and I
stopped talking and hanging out to the point where we almost became estranged
from each other. It probably lasted until about six months after our graduation.

This boundary had to do with a young woman. The perception on his part
was that I was crossing the line between friendship and potentially “going for”
the girl he was interested in. The fact was, I was friendly (and some would say
flirtatious) to the point that I would lead some people to believe I was pursuing
them. In one particular case, I was not respecting the relational line drawn in the
sand with the girl he was interested in. It may have cost him this relationship. He
had every right to be upset. Just because I could chalk it up to “this is how I am,
and my intent was only to be friendly” didn’t excuse the behavior.

I was so distraught over the fact that we had parted ways, so about six
months after graduation I mustered up enough courage to call and ask for
forgiveness for whatever it was that caused the rift between us. In that one
conversation, we were able to reconcile our relationship.

### Speaking and Receiving Truth in Relationship

Since graduating in 1995, we have lived in separate parts of the country for
most of our adult lives. But we do connect often. Brian invited me to be a part of
his wedding in Ohio, and we also saw each other at a college reunion where we
shared a motel room, even reliving the pizza and the Ben & Jerry’s experience (big
mistake). Every time we talk or get reconnected, it is like no time has passed. I trust
him implicitly. He is one of three men that knows _everything_ I have experienced
since college and knows me maybe even better than I know myself. And when we
talk, we don’t really have to catch up as most friends do. We simply start sharing