| 138 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

you’ve been waiting for that will propel you forward in life. Let me give you an
example.

Ever since I was a teenager, I have been making connections; that is, building
a community of people in every area I have lived. That community supports me
and everyone around me. I never rely on just one or a few individuals. Some
connections are stronger than others, but at any time, the lesser connections can
be strengthened with time and relationship.

Even though I have been building a community of people around me for
over thirty years, it wasn’t until the last five years when I realized the extreme
importance and imperativeness to always build on that community. What do I
mean by this?

Wherever I have lived, Baltimore, near Philadelphia, inner-city New Jersey,
Los Angeles, Central Coast California, or Northern California, my desire to get
to know people on a personal level has always been present. By taking someone
to coffee or lunch or just sitting down for a few minutes, you can learn a lot
about someone when you ask the right questions. It begins a relationship with
people. Plus, it means more to get to know someone than it does just to do a
transaction and move on.

This is not difficult to learn, but for some, I realize it is difficult to do. It
requires the art of listening and patience that has taken me quite a long time to
master, and I still have a long way to go. Impatience is one of the viruses that
can sicken any relationship.

Asking someone to tell you a little about themselves leaves too much room
for the person you are talking to. This leeway allows the person to give you only
the information they want you to hear. In most conversations they will paint a
positive picture of their life, leaving out the areas where they may accidentally
leak information that shows their insecurities and weaknesses, or even dreams
and aspirations.

When I first meet someone, I usually ask specific questions as long as I have
some time to sit down and listen. Sometimes I even have a pad and pen to take
notes, which I ask them if it is okay to use. Taking notes increases my capacity
to remember the information they are about to provide. Here are the typical
questions I ask:

```
Where were you born and how did you get to where you are?
Where have you lived?
Why did you choose your current profession or place to live?
When someone begins to share their story, they may glide over information
```
