<header markdown="1" class="chapter__header">
## Foreword 
{: class="chapter__subtitle"}
</header>

I WANT TO START THIS FOREWORD WITH A QUESTION... ARE YOU HAPPY?

There’s an academic journal called _The Journal of Happiness Studies_ , and they’re
trying to use the tools of research to figure out what it is that makes human life
flourish and what produces joy. I thought this was quite interesting. When they
looked at what distinguishes more happy people from less happy people, they
found that there is one factor, one difference that consistently separates those
two groups. What is it? I’ll bet you’re curious.

It’s not income. It’s not how much money you have. It’s not health. It’s not
what kind of shape your body is in. It’s not security. It’s not attractiveness. It’s
not IQ. It’s not career success. What distinguishes consistently happier people
from less happy people is the presence of rich, deep, joy-producing, life-chang-
ing, meaningful relationships with other human beings.

A guy named Robert Putnam wrote a book in this last decade called Bowling
Alone. It’s maybe the most influential kind of analysis of social wellbeing in the
last ten years (until this book!). This is one of the things he wrote,


> “The single most common finding from a half-century’s research
> on life satisfaction not only from the US but around the world,
> is that happiness is best predicted by the breadth and depth of
> one’s social connections.”

In other words, the best predictor of whether or not you will live with joy
and contentment is your relationships. In our world, you will see a half million
media messages telling you that happiness is just one purchase away. Why do
you think they call it a Happy Meal? In _The Lost Art of Relationship,_ Dan
explains that happiness is not _what_ —it’s _Who!_

Of course, that’s not news to God because God made us that way. The Bible
said this a long time ago. God created human beings, and then _“The Lord God
said, ‘It is not good for man to be alone.’”_ (Gen. 2:18)