---
title: The Art of Honesty
---
THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

of routine, and the child now has her parents wrapped around her finger. At
that point, the battle begins for who can outsmart the other. Will the parents
recognize the deceptive attempts and respond, or will they teach the child the
importance of crying only in the right circumstances?

At a certain point, children will even start to act like they are not doing
something wrong when in fact they are well aware of their behavior. Setting
their skill in motion, the child goes toward the cookie and picks it up to eat it.
When the parent pops their head around the corner and catches them in the act,
the response from the parent is, “No. Not before dinner.” But the response from
the child is to act like they are just looking at the cookie, and then gently place
it back on the plate of cookie awesomeness. Children learn the art of deception
early on.

How about the married relationship? What drives either person in this
bond to lie? Perhaps it is to avoid an uncomfortable conversation or conflict.
Truth be told (pun intended), if the deceptive behavior continues, it is only a
matter of time before the foundation of the relationship crumbles and trust is all
but lost. This is true for _all_ relationships.

Have you ever heard someone say?

_“Honestly...”_

_“To tell you the truth...”

_“I cannot tell a lie...”_

Why is it necessary to preface the truth with verification of its validity? I am
more inclined to think that anyone who uses these expressions is lying most of
the time, but this one fact that spills off their tongue _might_ be the truth.

Honesty is not a scary venture if you never do anything to place yourself
in the position of hurting someone, like an action you took or a conversation
you had with another that broke a confidence. We feel the need to be deceptive
whenever we are fearful of how that person will respond because we may have
done something that causes them to be hurt _or_ we have information that does
damage.

For most people, lying is the preferred method of communication. It has
become so ordinary that it can be quite challenging to determine which is the
true statement. There are even games where you have to lie and hope that
someone does not catch you in your lie. In a blog article from _The Huffing-
ton Post_ called “Sixty Percent of Your Colleagues Are Lying to You,” Dr. Travis
Bradberry wrote, “University of Massachusetts psychologist Robert Feldman
has studied lying for more than a decade, and his research has reached some
startling conclusions. Most shocking is that 60% of people lie during a typical