---
title: The Art of Vulnerability
---

THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

in-depth discussions because so many of the staff went there and people from the
church that knew us. So we did what any man would do—we went to McDon-
ald’s for ice cream cones and fries in the afternoons.

We progressed through the eight stages of relationship, and trust became
easy for us. Our wives often joked that we had a “bromance,” but they knew
that we had developed a healthy friendship where we were vulnerable with
one another. We could shoot straight with each other, be accountable to each
other, share our real thoughts without fear of judgment or gossip to others, and
support each other through what came to be pivotal moments in our lives.

We still catch up every couple of months, as we have moved to separate
parts of the country. I know that Gavin is praying for me, and when we do
talk, it is like time has not passed. I believe that our vulnerability was the key to
growing our relationship, solidifying it for life.

In addition to the art of vulnerability, there are other critical lessons I
learned about relationships because of this friendship with Gavin. These lessons
have shaped the way I see myself, how I do ministry, and how to cultivate a
one-of-a-kind friendship.

#### 1. Be yourself.

During my time in the ministry where Gavin and I worked, I had begun
the process of genuinely overcoming insecurity. Gavin became one of the great
encouragers in my life. Our mutual respect for each other was a catalyst for me
to honestly be myself and to become more confident in sharing my thoughts and
opinions without anxiety for how others will view me.

His desire and respect for my opinion were incredibly encouraging to me
personally. I took that very seriously. On the flip side, I desired and respected
his opinion as well. This created a mutual trust and understanding. When we
talked, we didn’t need to repeat phrases like, “please keep this between us,” or
“if someone found out about what I am sharing.” My thoughts, as raw as they
were, could all be on the table. Our discussions were a no-judgment zone. We
could truly be ourselves, vent, share our concerns, our histories, and even our
fears.

As a result, I decided to be myself in meetings, in the office, and with others
where I may have struggled with other personalities. Accepting the fact that
I could not and would never please everyone, I began to share my thoughts
and opinions during executive team meetings, making decisions quicker (and
accepting when I made a mistake), and working toward not over-analyzing how
someone may have responded to me.