| 134 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

still damp, give yourself a salt massage with dry salt. Ordinary
salt works well; the larger sea salt crystals also do the job.
Jesus tells us as believers that we also will influence anyone we come into
contact with, including those we are in a relationship with or not, whether they
are believers or not. God wants our influence to be useful, like salt, to _solidify_
our relationships with other believers. He wants us to _gather_ others and help
_put out_ the fires of conflict between us; to _restore_ relationships and our own
lives so we can be used by God. We can _freshen_ up our lives and the lives
of those around us and become more _effective_ to _enhance_ the relationships
around us. God will _remove the dead areas_ of our lives and _boost our spiritual
circulation_ so the body of Christ can operate without hindrance. Just as salt is
useful, we can be, too.

Now, let’s look at the properties and influence that light has on the
environment. You’ll see that light influences everything it reaches.

- Light _illuminates_ the darkness. In fact, darkness cannot exist
    in the presence of light. Light helps us to _see_ and _exposes_ what
    is hiding in the darkness.
- Plants need light to _grow_. Through photosynthesis, plants
    need light to synthesize foods (energy) from carbon dioxide
    and water by turning them into carbohydrates.
- Humans need light to _avoid health issues_ caused by Vitamin
    D deficiency, like depression, negative feelings, and impaired
    wound healing. Vitamin D is synthesized when sunlight
    touches the skin.
- We see objects and color but only because light allows us to
    receive these images through our eyes. In the darkness, there is
    the absence of color. In the light, we _see color_ all around us.
- Light provides warmth, which is _energy_ to many things.
    If it were not for the light of the sun, the delicate balance of
    life here on earth would be out of balance and not be able
    to exist.
- Lights are used as _signals_ in many different areas of life—red
    lights, green lights, yellow lights, white lights, blue lights.
Just like light, we are to be shining the light of Christ into the lives of
those around us. We can _illuminate_ the darkness around us and bring _life_ into
our relationships because of our connection to the Light. We can bring _health_
into our relationships because of the access to the Light, as well as bring _color_
and _vibrancy_ into the lives of others. We can give _energy_ to others and raise the

