---
title: The Art of Friendship
---
THE ART OF FRIENDSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

thing keeping us from walking through those entryways is a decision to engage.

### **2. A friend shows emotion on your behalf.**

Two of the greatest teachers that ever walked this earth is Jesus Christ and the
apostle Paul. Throughout their ministries on this earth, they displayed or taught the
care of others, and the role emotion plays in friendship, mainly these three:

Compassion is a deep awareness of the suffering of another living being
accompanied by the desire to bring relief. Showing compassion is not just emotion
on its own; it requires action as well. When you recognize the hurt, pain, sickness,
or sadness of someone else and you do something to alleviate their suffering, you
demonstrate compassion. This is a crucial connection point that will develop and
deepen the friendship. It shows that we are not self-absorbed only thinking of how
our relationship with someone affects us but solidifies in their mind that you care
about them. People sometimes just want to know that others notice them and care.

Jesus showed compassion for people many times throughout his ministry,
as we see in Matthew 14:14, “When he went ashore he saw a great crowd, and
he had compassion on them and healed their sick.” (See also Matt. 9:36; Mark
1:41, 6:34) Notice that in all of these instances, Jesus felt compassion and then
acted. He demonstrated the compassion he felt for them in tangible ways.

Anger is a biological response to an internal or external trigger. The kind
of anger regarding friendship I am talking about isn’t spewing anger because we
did not get our way or because we are upset with something that someone did
to us. I’m talking about righteous indignation, the kind that Jesus displayed in
Luke 2:13–16 and again in Matthew 21:12–13 when he went into the temple to
pray and found the temple’s outer courts filled with people exchanging money
for animals to sacrifice. In my opinion, Jesus knew the noise and commotion
made it very difficult for the worshippers who had come from long distances to
focus in prayer—those who were not allowed into the inner courts because they
were not Jewish, so he unleashed on the money changers.

If Jesus is our example of righteous anger, what do we do when someone
takes advantage of a friend? How do we respond when a loved one is hurt by
someone else? Are we outraged when an injustice or a crime happens against a
friend? Friendship mandates that we get angry and we show that emotion on
their behalf.

Grief is another emotion that friends display when it is appropriate. Many
of us don’t like to show sadness or grief publicly, as if it is a sign of weakness.
I say, showing sorrow or grief publicly takes a strong person. If Jesus can be
“strong” enough to prove that he cared, so can we. We can cry along with them