---
title: The Art of Unity
---

THE ART OF UNITY
{: class="page__topic"}

bought to spend that time with them. People are paid by the hour. Someone buys
your time so that you will do a job.

Time is something we _all_ say we wish we had more of. One of the things
we need to understand is that just like money, our time needs to be _budgeted_
in order of _priority_. You need time to develop relationships with people. Jesus
places our relational time as number one and two on the priority list—first, time
to build our relationship with God takes precedence; second, time invested in
our relationships with others follows.

Our abilities or talents are things we _love_ to do, things we feel _born_ to do,
such as speaking, writing, music, photography, humor, and creativity. We often
take them for granted in our own lives, but we can incorporate these abilities or
talents to develop our relationships with others and to promote unity.

We have two choices to spend our time:

- Invest our time and ability in others by providing light to the
    world for Jesus, by making a difference in our relationships
    with others, or by making a real impact in a cause or ministry.

Or, we can:

- Reserve our time and abilities for ourselves, for our own
    enjoyment, to build ourselves up.

When you place your mind on things above—on God, Jesus, and the power
of the Holy Spirit—you will spend less time sulking over what you didn’t get, and
more time trying to think of ways to help others get what they need.

Many people who are _not_ believers have a view on Christians where they
think the phrase “Christian humor” is an oxymoron. Christians are looked at
as terminally serious people, a bunch of hypocrites who tell the world what to
do and how to live their lives then judge them if they don’t. They see the body
of Christ having difficulty getting along with each other—the _disunity_ —and,
therefore, miss the good witness that only comes through _unity_.

There are many people we come into contact with, and all they really want
to hear is, “Your life has a purpose. God has a plan for you. Let me help you find
out what it is. Don’t give up!” Many hurting people don’t believe they matter
and they need us to put a hand on their shoulder and say a prayer for them. They
need our time and our ability to listen and care for them. It doesn’t take much to
encourage someone else; taking the time to do it is what matters.