---
title: The Art of Encouragement
---

THE ART OF ENCOURAGEMENT
{: class="page__topic"}

That first year as senior pastor of that little church was one of the most
challenging years I have experienced. I think I might have resigned at least three
times. Each time I called Steve as he was the one who directly oversaw this church
and told him I didn’t think I could do it anymore.

After a good night’s sleep and a talk with Tania, I called back and pulled my
resignation. Each time he said he had held it and didn’t intend on turning it in. He
knew that I had the potential and could power through the issues I was facing. He
also knew God was more than sufficient to meet my needs.

This was the year I truly understood the verse in 2 Corinthians 12:9, “Each
time he said, ‘My grace is all you need. My power works best in weakness.’ So now
I am glad to boast about my weaknesses so that the power of Christ can work
through me.”

One sunny Saturday afternoon between Christmas and New Year’s Day, I
gave Steve a call. I was incredibly frustrated with some issues the church was
facing, which had grown to about forty to fifty people strong. I was ready to
throw in the towel again. But this time Steve reacted way differently.

After I had finished my diatribe on why doing this wasn’t worth it, Steve
clearly knew this was the time to respond firmly. I will never forget what he said.
“Dan, are you a leader or a follower? If you want them to change their behavior,
you need to lead them to change their behavior. Get to know them personally. Be
there for them when they need it. Help them to understand how much God loves
them. But _stop_ complaining about the ones God has given you to lead!”

It was the slap in the face I needed to snap me out of my selfishness as a
leader and turn my focus over to the ones I was leading—to care about their lives,
to build a relationship with them, and to love them as I loved myself.

Proverbs 27:6 shouted at me,
“Wounds from a sincere friend are better than many kisses from an enemy.”
There were countless things that Steve taught me through his friendship
and leadership. We developed a meaningful relationship over the years, and he
truly was there for me as I hope I was there for him during some of the most
trying and painful times in his life and ministry.

```
Here are a few things I learned from my relationship with Steve Preston.
```
### The Power of Encouragement

It wasn’t until several years after I had left Los Angeles and moved to
Maryland, where my wife attended an oral surgery residency when I realized the
power of encouragement. I had always tried to encourage others, but I learned