---
title: Overcoming Unhealthy Relationships
---

THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

### Disconnecting from Unhealthy Relationships

We _choose_ the relationships we enter into, and sometimes it becomes
necessary for us to _disconnect_ from relationships that are not conducive to our
moving forward in a healthy way. We can _choose_ to disengage from _any_ relation-
ship, at any time, and for any reason.

No one is forcing us to stay connected to unhealthy relationships. And
they are not always easy to let go of, especially if we have been connected to
them for any extended amount of time. Sometimes unhealthy relationships are
habitual, or disconnection is very complicated, or maybe life is just too comfort-
able because change is hard.

Disconnecting does not have to have negative connotations. It also does
not have to be permanent, although that may be necessary. It would be incred-
ibly valuable to disconnect especially if the relationship does one or more of
these three things. One is if the person or group draws us away from a focused
and intentional relationship with God. When someone, or a group of someones,
influences us to compromise our faith in God or our moral boundaries, it is time
to disconnect. Second, the relationship has caused us to change to the point
where we have become the very thing we despise in others. The Proverbs warn
us of this very thing:

“Don’t befriend angry people or associate with hot-tempered
people, or you will learn to be like them and endanger your
soul.” (Prov. 22:24–25)
“Guard your heart above all else, for it determines the course
of your life.” (Prov. 4:23)
The third is if a person or group of people is taking advantage of us—we
find ourselves on the giving end with no reciprocation. This is not referring to
equality and mutual respect and admiration. This is when someone knows you
have something they need or want, and they entertain a relationship with you
only to continue benefitting from it.

Sometimes the disconnection only needs to be short to _correct_ the issue, and
then, if possible, reconnect through _reconciliation_. In coaching others, whether
for life coaching or career coaching, I have come across several people who
needed to follow the instructions to disconnect from a relationship for a short,
pre-arranged time in order to regain strength, perspective, and to set aside the
distraction of the relationship in order to work on what is important personally.

One person I coached had a close family relationship where it was evident
there were some dysfunctional tendencies. For one thing, there were no bound-
aries set in place. The family member would text, call or email at all times. This