| 194 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP


because of our faith in Jesus Christ through his death and resurrection,
which we will remember and celebrate in a few short weeks.

Please remove your shoes and socks.

This first act of removing your shoes and socks is a symbol of our
vulnerability before God. One of the parts of the body which we stay
away from on most people is their feet. Your feet take the brunt of your
travels. They are a representation of our lives as believers. Sometimes it
stinks. Sometimes it is very tiresome. Sometimes it hurts.

Everyone, wash the feet of the one in front of you. First the right,
then the left.

Everyone, now take the lotion provided to you and gently massage
the lotion into the tops of the feet of the one in front of you. First the
right, then the left.

The first thing I would like to speak to your lives and ministry is
this:

> “You have been working hard for the Lord. You
> have remained faithful even when you felt like
> you could not take one more step. Be washed and
> refreshed right now through the washing of your
> feet. You are entering into a time of refreshing
> before the Lord. Be renewed.”

The second thing I would like to speak to your lives and ministry
is this:

> “This lotion is a symbol of the covering of the
> power of the Holy Spirit who brings rest, comfort,
> and peace. The Holy Spirit also gives the power to
> be witnesses. Now rise and let your feet be fitted
> with the readiness that comes from the gospel of
> peace.”

Receive the blessing of the Lord over your lives and over your
ministry.