```
THE ART OF SERVICE AND RECONCILIATION 27 |
```

I had a choice to make. Would I continue my mom’s legacy and honor her
memory by living the way she lived? Would I also learn from her mistake of not
making sure her own soul was refreshed? (After all, one must learn to receive to
give more, right?) The answers are a resounding yes. What she deposited into my
life about relationships will stay with me forever, and I am reminded of it often.

### From Relationship to Rift

Things weren’t always great between my mom and me, especially during
my teen years. I remember three distinct times where we had pivotal moments
in our relationship. The first occurred when I was twelve years old. We had a
split-level home just outside of Baltimore, Maryland. Our basement was a half
basement with a room my dad and Pop Pop (my grandfather) had built. I was
laying on the sofa in that half basement watching TV. My mom had given me
some kind of command, and I said, “NO!” As a good southern mom would
understand, there was no room for disrespect in the mother-son relationship.
Her reaction was swift with a hand coming toward me to slap me in my disre-
spectful face (which I deserved). This had happened before, and I deserved it
every time. However, my reaction this time was very different. I reached up and
grabbed her hand, stopping its momentum. She tried to pull her hand away, and
I didn’t let go. With that one action, I caused a rift in my relationship with her.
Something changed in our relationship at that moment. I was stronger than she
and I had proven it. Thus began a verbal struggle that lasted over many years.

It was not long after this when our family was driving in our Oldsmobile
Cutlass Supreme to a destination I do not remember. I had talked back to my
mom, and she reached back over the seat to try and pinch the backtalk out of
me. She had been successful many times, but my wily agility allowed me to dodge
every attempt. My mother looked at my father and tried to solicit his help. I’ll
never forget my dad’s next comment. “Hon, he is getting older and stronger.
You will not be able to discipline him this way anymore. It’s not working.” Even
though I had been spared the physical discipline from them after that day, other
areas began to close in on me.

Let me stop and say, as parents, they did the best they could with my
brother, myself, and my sister. I didn’t make it any easier for them to parent me.
They were by no means perfect, and I definitely was not a perfect son. Through
their strengths and weaknesses, they taught me so much about relationships. The
way I was raised has made me the man I am today, faults and all. However, I
needed to take responsibility for all of my actions, reactions, and relationships.

Whether it was night or day, or cold or hot outside, I don’t know, but
there was one day that will be forever marked by a comment she made to me.