```
THE ART OF FORGIVENESS 43 |
```
_The answer is to forgive again._

We can choose a lifestyle of forgiveness that says, “I refuse to dwell on this
because I have chosen to forgive.” It is true that forgiveness will stunt the growth
of the unforgiveness seed. It can uproot bitterness and open the door to deeper
relationships with others. We can prune the leaves of anger that grow and are
sustained when fed with resentment by choosing to forgive.

Forgiveness is a _lost art,_ one that can provide wonderful results when
exercised. According to an article written about forgiveness and health by
doctors at Johns Hopkins Medicine, “Studies have found that the act of forgive-
ness can reap huge rewards for your health, lowering the risk of heart attack;
improving cholesterol levels and sleep; and reducing pain, blood pressure, and
levels of anxiety, depression, and stress. And research points to an increase in the
forgiveness-health connection as you age.”<sup>4</sup>

We can face obstacles and relational challenges with confidence when we
live a life of forgiveness. Just remember that unforgiveness yields a _bitter perspec-
tive_ ; causes us to _distrust_ others; leads to _insecurity_ ; provides more opportunities
to live and act on our _anger_ ; sews threads of _resentment_ in our relationships. But
forgiveness yields a _sweeter_ perspective, provides more opportunities to experi-
ence _happiness_ , and sews threads of _joy_ in our relationships.

Let’s learn these two phrases and practice them with each other.

_Please forgive me._

_I forgive you._