---
title: Overcoming Unhealthy Relationships
---
THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

> to pray. Very early in the morning, while it was still dark, Jesus
> got up, left the house and went off to a solitary place, where he
> prayed.” (Matt. 14:23)

If Jesus needed to break away from people, the very reason he was here on
this earth to begin with, we certainly need to as well. The primary relationship
in our lives is and should be our relationship with God. We were created to
be in a relationship with Him first. So when we don’t spend time with God in
relationship, we become incredibly vulnerable to all of the behaviors and actions
that are opposite of who God is and what He wants to do in our lives. Time with
Him means an abundance of joy. No time with Him and we may fill our minds
with thoughts that are counter-productive to a balanced life in relationship with
Him and others.

Have a daily time with God, where you break away from everyone around
you. Get alone with Him and allow Him to speak to you through His Word, as
the Holy Spirit reminds you of all the things that Jesus taught.

> “You must love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your
> soul, and all your mind.” (Matt. 22:37)

It is possible to get ourselves into situations where we place obstacles
between Him and us, thus making it easier to put obstacles between us and
others. An obstacle between God and me is anything that gets in the way of
my relationship with Him. That could include certain people, activities, or even
responsibilities. He can guide us in who and what they are.

We want to make sure to find a community of people where we are consis-
tently hearing about and experiencing a close connection to God. This can be in
a small group at church, a Bible study at home, or even making sure we go to
church and other functions where the distractions of life will not pull us away.
These will lead to healthy relationships.

Also, it is so important to keep yourself charged with God’s Spirit and
stay connected to Him. This is true for strength in our daily lives and for our
relationships with others to stay on track. For me, it involves taking time every
morning to read the Bible, read a devotional book, writing down three things I
am grateful for, and writing out my prayer for the day. At night, I take some time
to process the day and write down how it went, thanking God for another day
to live. What does it look like for you?

Our relationship with God should be first and foremost the _most important_
relationship in our life. God never moves. His strength is sustaining, and His
love for us is always there. When you begin to feel distant from God, remember
the love you had for Him when you first accepted Him as your Source, your life,