| 48 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

Relationship is God’s second and greatest commandment to us—love
others as you love yourself. You cannot obey this command if you never connect
with others. Connection pleases God.

### The Purpose of Relationship

Finally, we get down to the purpose of relationship. In one word, it is
_companionship_. This is the purpose at its very core. There can be various levels
of companionship, such as family members (husband, wife, children), friends
(hobbies, shared interests, fun), workmates (a shared purpose), or teammates (a
shared goal). Whatever the level of relationship, the hope is that we will continue
to increase trust, build on the connection, and find fulfillment in it.

In the process of finding this fulfillment of companionship, something
happens—the need to connect on a deeper level rises to the top. We will inevita-
bly try to find a way to build on what connects us. Sometimes this is successful,
and sometimes it is not. Why do teams fail? It probably has something to do with
a lack of relationship. Why do families fall apart? It probably has something to
do with a discrepancy in relationship.

A companion is someone you share experiences with. Therefore, the reason
you enter into relationships is quite possible to share experiences with others, to
bring meaning to your life, and to come to a place of trust and understanding.
This is why it is so devastating when someone breaches a relational bond; it can
become more difficult for someone to connect with others when trust is broken.

Take a look at just one area—your work team. At work, you cannot escape
it, you _will_ be around people. If you are around people, you _will_ be forced to
interact. When forced to interact, you _need_ to make the decision to be a valued
part of the team. When you make the decision to be a valued part of the team,
others _will_ be drawn to you. When others are attracted to you, that means you
_are_ already part of a relationship—a team relationship.

What kind of team member will you be? If you connect with others in a
meaningful way—with the purpose of bringing value to the team and to others—
companionship will develop.

But what about that person on the team that only seems to be concerned
for themselves?

Great question! The short answer is that it will slow the team down unless
the team decides to address it. The key here is addressing this behavior. If you are
the one leading the team, try having the team do a group activity. This activity
should be intentional and focused on the team’s ability to work together and
value the contributions of the others. The expectation cannot be that the team