| 42 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

As believers, God leans toward us and extends His favor, and because Jesus
came to His creation and died in our place, He is favorably disposed toward us.
This fact alone should help us as we go through any circumstance. We can have
joy through even the most difficult of situations because we recognize and are
living in awareness of God’s grace toward us.

If it were not for Jesus, God’s grace personified acted out and displayed, we
would find it very difficult to experience joy, as in fact, many people do.

If we understand this, it doesn’t mean that we will never be sad. It says that
in our sadness, we can be reminded of God’s grace toward us and allow the hope
of our eternal future to lift us above the circumstance and give us a different
perspective—one of understanding that this sadness is momentary. We will not
always be in this state. We can be, will be, and are in God’s grace.

Joy is the awareness that God’s grace is never far away. In fact, it resides
in our hearts, in our minds, and in our lives. Joy is not a feeling. Joy is not just
a perspective. Joy can be our reality when we recognize God’s grace even when
our lives and what is around us is crumbling.

Joy becomes the thread which runs through everything we do—all other
relationships are affected, and it opens us to trusting others, getting closer to
others, and walking through any challenge or victory. It helps us to navigate
the hurts, neglect, and/or offenses that take place around us and to us. There is
One who is closer to us than anyone can ever be. He was more vulnerable than
anyone as he opened his arms on the cross, loved us to the point of death, but
then provided the hope that guides our lives.

Joy helps us to see, as we are _aware of God’s grace,_ that we can provide the
same forgiveness to others that were given to us.

### Forgiveness Is a Choice

> “And when you stand and pray, forgive anything you may have
> against anyone, so that your Father in heaven will forgive the
> wrongs you have done.” (Mark 11:25)

Forgiveness is not an emotion or a feeling. Memories generate old feelings.
Since we choose to forgive, we also choose to maintain that forgiveness by
derailing feelings that may arise when reflecting on past hurts.

The only way to interrupt the vicious cycle of unforgiveness that leads
to bitterness, distrust, insecurity, anger, and resentment is through forgiveness.
Every time we are reminded of a past hurt or offense, we are at risk of entering
that cycle all over again.