---
title: The Art of Hope
---
THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

We should feel compelled to seek forgiveness and reconciliation when we have
done someone wrong.

# There is hope!

When going through a hurtful situation in a relationship, it can feel as if it
will never be made right again.

_Trust can be broken._

_Words can leave emotional scars._

_Thoughts can take you captive to the hurt._

But insert hope into the equation! What happens then?

_Love for someone can cover over a multitude of wrongs._

_Forgiveness can heal wounds left by words._

_Trust can be rebuilt._

_Thoughts can be forced into submission._

_Restoration is possible._

We all have a responsibility in our relationships, even if we are not the one
causing the relational damage. It is up to us to show love, model healthy conflict
resolution, and do our part to make things right. No, you will not be able to
control the response of the other person. But you can control your response,
whether you are the hurt-er or the hurt-ee.

Sometimes you have to allow the other person to separate themselves for
a time. They may need to go through a process before they are ready to re-enter
the relationship. In that time period, pray for them. Ask God to bless them, be
with them, and help them in their relationships.

I’m not someone who says that positive thinking will change anything
except _your_ attitude. However, there is a quote by author Robert H. Schuller
that has helped me: “Let your hopes, not your hurts, shape your future.”^11

Hold out hope in your relationships. It is a powerful motivator. The next
chapter expands on this.