```
THE ART OF THE QUESTION 187 |
```
just ninety seconds, all of it fell away, and they did what they loved to do. The
audience, the judges, and we at home loved it.

That moment when they realize their performance and their talent is
recognized and appreciated, and they well up with emotion— _that_ is the reason
why I love this show. Overcoming obstacles, negative feelings, negative people,
negative situations in their lives, and being affirmed in their passion in life is well
worth the time. I celebrate with them as they have already won the show.

Another favorite reality TV show I used to watch was _Extreme Home
Makeover._ It was always the last ten minutes of the show when Ty Pennington
would _“move that bus,”_ and the family would see their new home for the first
time. Their reactions of disbelief, celebration, crying, appreciation, and all the
emotions that come with receiving something you feel you don’t deserve come
bursting through the television screen. I cannot help but laugh, cry, and celebrate
with them. These moments when someone gets to experience a _win,_ and we get
to witness it—this is why I love those shows.

This is the same reason why I am a pastor. I live for the moment when
someone realizes all their sins can be forgiven just because they have made a
confession of faith in Jesus Christ and his sacrifice and resurrection. They just
received a gift they could never buy and never earn, and they will never again
be the same.

When someone’s eyes and hearts are open to receiving the gift of eternal
life with God, _that_ moment is my favorite moment. A few others that come close
are when an _A-ha!_ moment happens because someone has just learned another
nugget of information that will help them in their life and relationships. I love
when reconciliation happens between two people, and I love being able to bless
someone with something that makes their day and helps them to understand
how God sees them and loves them. Those are the moments I live for.

The disciples had that kind of _A-ha!_ moment with Jesus. Mark 8:27–
describes a time when the disciples had been traveling with Jesus for some time.
They had eaten with him, walked with him, witnessed him perform mind-blow-
ing miracles—things they had never seen before—and they talked with and
learned from him daily.

The disciples learned that a relationship with God involves questions.
They asked questions all the time of Jesus! And Jesus was always asking them
questions. It is not just us that asks questions of God; sometimes God asks
questions of us.

The difference here is that since God already knows us inside and out, the
questions He asks can be to test us, to see how far along we are in our growing

