| 88 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

# 2. Unity is self-sacrificing.

Becoming a disciple of Christ means you must deny yourself. In Matthew
16:24, Jesus said to his disciples, “If any of you wants to be my follower, you
must turn from your selfish ways, take up your cross, and follow me.”

What separates us from a relationship with God? The easy answer is _sin._
What separates us from a relationship with each other? Again, the easy answer
is _sin._ James 1:14–15 tell us, “Temptation comes from our own desires, which
entice us and drag us away. These desires give birth to sinful actions. And when
sin is allowed to grow, it gives birth to death.”

So sin cannot happen unless you desire it. Sin in its very nature is found in
_pride_ and _selfishness_. Sin is conceived from temptation, which entices us through
the evil desires of the flesh. Our sinful _desires_ (“give me what I want”) plus
_temptation_ give birth to _sin_.

Our desires say, _“Feed me. Give me what I want.”_ They are self-seeking and
prideful. Pride and selfishness are what separates us from God and others. Philippi-
ans 2:3–4 says, “Don’t be selfish; don’t try to impress others. Be humble, thinking
of others as better than yourselves. Don’t look out only for your own interests, but
take an interest in others, too.” Colossians 3:10 says, “Put on your new nature, and
be renewed as you learn to know your Creator and become like him.”

Romans 12:3 also instructs us, “Don’t think you are better than you really
are. Be honest in your evaluation of yourselves, measuring yourselves by the
faith God has given us.” Pride and selfishness separate, but imitating Jesus and
his self-sacrificing love for others integrates. The enemy has fought for dissen-
sions, divisions, disagreements, debates, dislikes, distastes, and disdain. But Jesus
desires unity. To walk in unity with other people, we must say _no_ to our selfish
desires and exhibit a self-sacrificing attitude.

# 3. Unity takes discipline.

I learned this lesson of discipline from Joe Taybron.
When my family moved to Northern California in 2013, I literally knew _no
one._ I had no connections in the area (that I knew of) and had to start building
relationships from scratch. My only desire was to befriend pastors, get to know
them, provide a listening ear, be someone they could talk to who understood
what they were going through, be a confidential confidant, and offer myself as a
resource to go to if they needed anything.

I spent months and months calling churches, trying to set up coffee or lunch
appointments, hoping to get some face time with the pastors in my area. It was

