```
137
```
### 18.

## The Art of Community

## “Networking is rubbish; have friends instead.”

## ~ Steve Winwood, Music Artist

# T

here is a lot of wisdom in this quote by musician Steve Winwood. The differ-
ence between networking and a community of friends is huge in terms of
relationship. One is done based on needing something from someone, the other
is mutual and inclusive. Let’s start with how networking is defined.

Networking is “the exchange of information or services among individuals,
groups or institutions; specifically: the cultivation of productive relationships for
employment or business,” or it can be “the establishment or use of a computer
network.”

A computer network is made up of several to many computers used for a
specific purpose. They are all connected to a central location for that informa-
tion to pass through to get to another connected location. Computer networks
can be connected to each other through the use of the internet. The internet is
essentially the highway where information or services are transmitted. In this
picture, networking is entirely mechanical and technological.

However, a community is a sort of relational networking among human
beings. It is much more organic than networking. How? We decide who we wish
to be connected to or not. We can stop the flow of information or services with
any individual we want to. We can also decide to be connected to whomever we
wish and begin the flow of information or services with any person. The power
of community is way underestimated, in my opinion.

Communities have to be built, which requires time, intentionality, and
trusting God with the opportunities. Why build community with others? Because
we could be one relationship away from changing the course of our destiny. You
never know when someone you meet has the key or connection or opportunity

