---
title: The Art of Hope
---

THE ART OF HOPE
{: class="page__topic"}

encouragement comes, and hope is ignited. That hope can be
the lifeline they, or you can hold on to.
3. Hope provides a _new perspective._ It can open our eyes to see
    the _possibility_ of a reconciled relationship, that we will be able
    to get closer to someone to speak life into their heart. We learn
    how to put into context the issues we face, and we also realize
    that everyone is at a different place, so sometimes we need to
    be patient, and other times we need others to be patient with
    us.
4. Hope says that relationships _can be restored despite the circum-_
    _stances_ that surrounded, shrouded, or confused them. I have
    seen marital relationships come back from unfaithfulness, pain,
    misunderstanding, confusion, and long-standing hurt. As long
    as there is breath in our lungs and a heartbeat pounding inside
    our chest, there is hope for a restored relationship.

Of course, reconciliation takes two people to make it happen. However,
that is where prayer comes in. Prayer, simply put, is communication with God.
We can talk to Him and let Him know what is going on in our relationships.
Remember, first and foremost, we are to love God with all of our heart, mind,
soul, and strength—to be in relationship with Him. I guarantee that He knows
and can handle whatever issue you may have. Ask Him for the wisdom in how
to deal with the hurt of a relationship and to help mend whatever damage was
done, no matter _who_ was the cause. What God can do in a heart or mind of
someone is miraculous. We may not be able to reach them, but God can. Psalm
147:3 says, “He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds.” He can
heal them and us emotionally and psychologically; He will get us through this.

As we stay close to God in relationship, He begins to open up our eyes to
the hurts of others—the issues others face and the triggers our loved ones and
we have. Because God helps us, if something happens between friends that hurt
one or the other or both of you, it doesn’t have to be the end. You can have _hope_
that the relationship will mend.

### Moving Towards Restoration

To restore a relationship, we know we can commit to hope and pray. But
what else can we do? What is our part in the restoration process? The Scriptures
tell us, “If it is possible, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with everyone”
(Rom. 12:18, NIV). There are some specific things we can resolve to do that will,
at least on our part, drive us closer to the destination of a healed relationship.