```
THE ART OF UNITY 91 |
```
# Renewing Our Minds

In Romans 12:2, Paul calls for us to renew our minds. He says,
“Don’t copy the behavior and customs of this world, but let
God transform you into a new person by changing the way you
think. Then you will learn to know God’s will for you, which is
good and pleasing and perfect.”
Renewing our minds is a learning process. A disciple is one who learns. In
life, you should never stop learning. Once you stop learning, you cease to live.
The more you learn about God, the more your mind will become renewed. You
cannot learn more about God and stay the same. Learning about God means
you will be changed for the better. Makes sense, doesn’t it?

When you discipline yourself to practice what you learn, you will begin
to see others as God sees them. In the image of the Creator, there is no Jew or
Greek; no black, white, or brown; no male or female. Spiritual discipline drives
us to a _deeper relationship with God._

There are many ways to discipline ourselves to promote _unity_ in relationships
with those around us. Colossians 3:12–17 is a great place to start for a practical
list of actions to focus on. As you practice them, you will see your attitude change
toward others, as well as their attitude toward you. Let’s review them.

1. Clothe ourselves with tender-hearted mercy, kindness, humility,
    gentleness, and patience.
2. Make allowance for each other’s faults, and forgive _anyone_
    who offends you. (See also Matt. 6:14–15)
3. Most importantly, clothe ourselves with love, which binds us
    all together in perfect harmony (unity).
4. Let the peace of Christ rule our hearts.
5. As members of one body, we are called to live in peace with
    each other.
6. Always be thankful.
7. Let the message about Christ fill our lives; in other words, let
    our speech signal others that we are followers of Jesus.
8. Teach and counsel each other with all the wisdom he gives. (See
    also Prov. 27:17)
9. Sing psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs to God with thankful
    hearts (express your love openly).

