<div markdown="1" class="book-intro">
I would recommend this book not because of Dan’s deep research into the subject,
but because the subject matter is deeply in him. Dan has made his life’s journey
living out _The Lost Art of Relationship_.

> — <cite>DR. SAM HUDDLESTON</cite>, Assistant Superintendent Assemblies of
> God, Northern California District, and author of five Years To life

_The Lost Art of Relationship_ is a fun and fascinating read that reveals stunning
insights for loving people and cultivating relationships. It’s easy to focus all of
our Christian walk on developing relationship with God to the point that we
forget to apply God’s command in loving others. Loving others is not easy, and
sadly, many Christians don’t do it well. Dan beautifully illuminates our kingdom
mandate while providing brilliant insights, practical steps, engaging stories, and
revelations at every turn. Particularly revelatory are the pitfalls and mistakes so
many of us make that cost us vibrant and healthy relationships. If you want to
fulfill the commandment of loving others (and do it well), this book is must-read.

> — ERIC KNOPF, co-founder of Webconnex<br>
> LLC and founder of Epic Life
{: class="has-small-caps has-text-right"}

What is refreshing about this book is that it not only contains incredible insight
and wisdom, but it authentically represents Dan Chrystal. His transparency will
undoubtedly touch your heart. I met Dan several years ago at our large church
where I served as a pastor. I quickly observed that Dan is one of the most skillful
people I have ever met at intentionally developing deep and healthy friendships.
Dan is authentic and caring and it shows in the vast number of people who
have the blessing of knowing him and their deep affection for him. This book
contains the thoughtful wisdom Dan applies to his relationships. I highly and
enthusiastically recommend this book as I know anyone who reads and applies
it will walk away a better friend, spouse, worker, and person.

> — DAN HOUK, pastor of Shadow Mountain
> South Bay Campus, San Diego, California
{: class="has-small-caps has-text-right"}
</div>