```
THE ART OF FORGIVENESS 33 |
```
sickness, headaches, and poor health. Yes, bitterness is a terrible thing. It is like a
festering wound that never heals. It is a scab that when picked begins to remove
the healthy skin around the wound. Bitterness causes someone trouble and begins
to strain the relationships with those they are close to. Living with bitterness
blocks us from truly loving others.

# Distrust

_“What loneliness is more lonely than distrust?”_ ~ George Eliot
Distrust is another one of the significant results of unforgiveness. Anyone
around the bitter person can be a target of distrust. The hurt or offense that
planted the seed of unforgiveness, which grows into a root of bitterness, becomes
the lens we look through, even with those closest to us. We can begin to think that
everyone is going to hurt us in the same way. We believe we are the only ones we
can trust and this inevitably leads to an exhausting and lonely existence.

# Insecurity

_“The reason why we struggle with insecurity is that we compare
our behind-the-scenes with everyone else’s highlight reel.”_
~ Steven Furtick
Insecurity is an outcome of unforgiveness. We begin to believe we are
the reason why we were hurt or offended—that no matter what we do, our
situation will always end up the same. Insecurity strangles out the healthy
aspects of any relationship, as we become emotionally unavailable to give or
receive love or care.

Have I gotten your attention yet?
Unforgiveness leads to bitter people, who are those who have never let go
of a past offense or hurt. Instead, they build up walls in their hearts, become
distrustful of others, and allow insecurity to rule their emotions. Maybe they
were hurt by...

```
a family member
a church
a pastor
a friend
an ex-spouse (or current spouse)
someone of another ethnicity
```
