```
THE ART OF UNITY 85 |
```
Stations of the Cross. I was the only white pastor who spoke that night. It was an
honor and more than a privilege to have been invited, accepted, and embraced in
relationship by these churches.

The message I spoke that day was entitled, “Pride Separates, Jesus Integrates.”
Using Colossians 3:1–17, I explained that pride is what truly separates us all
from God and also from lasting and meaningful relationships with others. Verses
13–17 tell us to _bear with each other_ —endure through, go through life with,
support, sustain, uphold each other. _Forgive whatever grievances you may have
against one another. Forgive as God forgave you._ You didn’t earn God’s forgive-
ness; He offered it with _no strings attached!_ We are to do the same for others.
These are all instructions about getting along with each other in _unity._

Most of us desire peace in the world and harmony between all people. But
even though we talk about harmony in the world and getting along with each
other, it seems that unity is more of an ideal than a reality. Let’s unpack this further.

### The Culture of Me

What we have in society today is a “Culture-of-Me” mindset. You can see it all
over the place. Whatever makes it more convenient for me will most likely get my
attention. I don’t have to be the one to tell you that our culture is very disunified.

The word _unity_ literally means “quality of one or condition of one.” Un _ity
is defined as oneness, sameness, or agreement._ In John 13:34–35, Jesus said to
his disciples, “So now I am giving you a new commandment: Love each other.
Just as I have loved you, you should love each other. Your love for one another
will prove to the world that you are my disciples.”

He also gave this command to his disciples and actually falls right in line
with what I like to call the “True Lord’s Prayer” found in John 17:20–24,

> “I am praying not only for these disciples but also for all who
> will ever believe in me through their message. I pray that they
> will all be one, just as you and I are one—as you are in me,
> Father, and I am in you. And may they be in us so that the world
> will believe you sent me. I have given them the glory you gave
> me, so they may be one as we are one. I am in them and you are
> in me. May they experience such perfect unity that the world will
> know that you sent me and that you love them as much as you
> love me.”
> This is what Jesus prayed over his disciples and also over us. (Note where
> Jesus said, “I am praying...also _for all who will ever believe in me through their
> message.”_ )