```
OVERCOMING INHIBITION AND INSECURITY 97 |
```
# 360° Work Review

The process of being able to overcome the emotional obstacle of insecurity
jump-started in 2012. I was one of eight on a senior-level team that oversaw a
large ministry organization. The senior leader had us perform a 360° evalua-
tion, which dove into areas such as the culture of the workplace, character, job
relationships, and competence.

Personality profiles are a fun exercise for me. I like to self-evaluate to see
how I have changed or adapted to the environment, how I have grown, and
what areas still need improvement. However, _this_ evaluation was much different.
Along with my own self-evaluation, all of my colleagues, my boss, and my
closest family and friends took the same evaluation. A consultant reviewed all
the responses and sat with us one-on-one to go over potential issues, how we fit
into the team, wins, and the possibility of blind spots we could seek guidance for.

When it was my turn to sit down with the consultant, I discovered that
most people saw me for who I was. However, all of the responses on the negative
side said something like, _“There isn’t really anything negative I can say about
Dan that is glaring, but he could improve by ...,”_ or _“He needs to show more
confidence because his opinion is valued.”_

Were my eyes ever opened!
What I thought I had overcome in my life, others around me at work, at
home, and in friendships pointed right to the issue without being able to place
their finger on exactly what the issue was. I knew exactly what the issue was and
my heart sank.

They were all pointing to the deep sense of insecurity I have battled for
most of my teen and adult life. This insecurity had woven its way into every
aspect of my life and relationships. For the most part, it hadn’t destroyed any
relationships, but it certainly held me back from realizing deep and meaningful
ones. I had held people at arm’s length for fear of their discovering I was not as
confident as I seemed outwardly. The trouble is, they all saw it.

Since that time, I have made a distinct effort to be open with this issue. With
guidance, prayer, and stepping out in faith, I can daily overcome this feeling of
insecurity and move forward with confidence.

Do I still fail? Do I still make mistakes? Yes! When I do fail, do I still battle
with the afterthoughts that try to plague my next step forward? You betcha! The
difference, you might ask? I embrace it now. Sometimes I need a good swift kick
in the aft deck by someone that loves me to remind me that I am slipping into
the lake of timidity—” _Just cut it out! Pick yourself up off the mat and go back
swinging!”_

