```
191
```
## F

# Conclusion

Why should we connect with others?
By now, I’m hoping you know why!
It benefits me. It benefits you. It should benefit others. It pleases God.
I have seen so many relationships suffer due to pride, including some of
mine due to my own pride. At the very core, pride rots our relationships and
keeps us from developing meaningful connections with others.

We all have several things in common: all of us have had relationships
fail; all of us have relationships we are struggling with even now; all of us need
healthy relationships with others; all of us need a relationship with God.

No matter where we are in life, rediscovering the lost art of relationship
can help us grow and develop meaningful connections with others, thereby
enhancing our lives, building our businesses, expanding our personal commu-
nities, lifting our churches, encouraging others, and leaving us with no regrets
at the end of our lives.

If you are a youth, remember to value others.
If you are a young adult, remind yourself you need others.
If you are a middle-aged adult, remember your purpose in relationships.
If you are a seasoned adult, remind yourself that you are still valuable—as
long as you have breath in your lungs, you can be an influence in relationships.

Take the chance in your relationships. Ask questions. Lay aside your
inhibitions. Become a servant. Be a friend. Prove yourself trustworthy. Be
humble. Be honest. Build a strong foundation. Hold on to hope. Understand
that influence is way better than authority. Don’t allow jealousy to taint your
relationships. Forgive. Pray. Give people a second chance. Treat others how
you want to be treated. Build your community. Understand your purpose in
relationship. And most of all, love others as you love yourself.

