```
THE ART OF FORGIVENESS 35 |
```
thought through how we would react to a potential action toward us. There are
multiple examples we could think of to show what it means to respond. However,
let me throw a positive one your way.

Have you ever been in a relationship with someone (not romantic, but any
connection such as work, family, or friendship), and the other person continues to
say and do things that trigger an anger emotion? Of course, you have! According
to Newton’s Third Law, “For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.”
So our reaction says or does something equally with the same tone or with the
same sharpness.

A response, however, takes a look at the circumstances surrounding the
person causing the trigger to engage. We begin to think through and take notice
of the other person and what they are going through. We also can take a look at
what we may be doing to cause their trigger to engage.

Positively responding to this situation could be showing kindness, even
though we may feel it is undeserved. Responding could also present a soft
approach, asking the other person how they are doing, and /or what they are
feeling. When we choose to respond, we have more opportunity to strengthen a
relationship than when we react. That is, of course, if your response has the health
of the relationship in mind.

If we continually “react” to stimuli that cause anger or other negative
emotions, it can lead us to the fifth side effect of unforgiveness—resentment.

#### Resentment

> _“Resentment always hurts you more than it does the person you resent.”_
> ~ Rick Warren
{: class="has-text-centered"}

Resentment becomes the thread which runs through everything we do. All
other relationships are affected, and it blocks us from trusting others, getting close
to others, and opening up our lives to others. Resentment is a relationship killer,
as it spills over into other potential relationships.

Anyone who may fit the description of what drove us into resentment
becomes a target for our negative emotions. When resentment becomes a thread
interwoven into all other aspects of life, it can keep us from enjoying new
potential friendships and dismantling existing relationships. Why? Because we
replay the hurt and/or offense over and over in our minds and hearts. When
we are reminded of a past hurt, we start this whole cycle of unforgiveness all
over again. This cycle keeps us in _prison._ We are the ones who hold ourselves
in bondage, in these handcuffs. We think we are in control, but unforgiveness
means we have yielded authority to the person who offended us.