---
title: The Art of Influence
---
THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

home instantly became their family. They were inviting, welcoming, and wanted
you to see their space as a place of love, healing, and joy.

Did the Coetzee family struggle? Absolutely. However, their example of
perseverance and character produced hope in the many lives that were blessed
to be around them for any length of time.

### Behind-the-Scenes Influence

During this first year, I spent many hours with the leaders of the church, the
parents of the youth I was leading, and the youth that had started to come to
the church. On more than one occasion, I heard about or could see the influence
Victor Coetzee had on the lives and families I spent time with. They each had a
story of a moment, a time frame, or just consistently how he had been there for
them in life, prayed for them through a difficult season, or called or encouraged
them through his messages and teaching through the years.

When I was brought there, Pastor Coetzee had given me the liberty to
start this youth ministry and try my hand at many different ideas. Some failed
miserably and others succeeded by the skin of their teeth. He stood by me and
supported me through all of them.

There was one event that I was working toward, a concert for the youth in the
city. He could see how much of a toll it was taking and how it may not have been
the best road to have traveled down. He allowed me to walk down this road and
offered suggestions and cautions through the entire thing. Not once did he say,
“Don’t do this!”

At one point in the planning, I could see the necessity to pull the plug and
take the loss. He didn’t say, “I told you so.” He simply encouraged me in the
decision and taught me to lead in a way where I accepted responsibility, admitted
errors, and moved on to the next thing. I was building the art of influence.

His behind-the-scenes influence in my life and ministry helped to teach me even
when he didn’t say any words. As you can see, I highly respected this man and how
God has used him in my life, especially in the area of influencing others. He lived
in a way where others could see who he was. He didn’t need to say it—he lived it.

### Influence Requires Humility

After about a year of ministry under Pastor Coetzee, he came to me and
told me that he would be retiring after nineteen years of ministry in Paterson
and over forty years of ministry as a missionary and pastor. I was more than
dumbfounded, to say the least, although I understood why he was retiring, as he