| 34 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

a co-worker or employer

someone in leadership

When offenses are not dealt with in a healthy manner, walls are built—huge
walls.

> “See to it that no one falls short of the grace of God and that no
> bitter root grows up to cause trouble and defile many.” (Heb.
> 12:15)

Bitterness can strain our relationships. We begin to see others through the
lens of the grudge; distrust grows into a stalwart tree and blocks us from experi-
encing the warmth of other relationships. It is the root that grows to become
that stalwart tree that cannot be moved. The only way to get rid of bitterness is
to _uproot_ it. It needs to be removed entirely.

#### Anger

> “Get rid of all bitterness, rage and anger, brawling and slander,
> along with every form of malice.” (Eph. 4:31)

Unforgiveness can most definitely lead to anger, another side effect, which is
a biological response to an external or internal trigger in our life. Some of these
triggers may be the way someone says something to us (whether in an offensive
way or bad tone), a betrayal, or simply a memory of a bad event in our life.

When the trigger is engaged, a chemical response happens in our brains,
adrenaline is released, and we enter into “Fight, Flight, or Freeze” mode. Some of
us instantly engage. Some of us avoid the confrontation. Still, others shut down
altogether.

It is totally okay to experience anger. It’s _not_ okay to hurt someone in our
anger. This is why I believe Ephesians 4:26 (NIV) was written, “In your anger do
not sin.” We _can_ control our anger by learning the difference between reacting and
responding.

For the most part, reacting to external stimuli doesn’t take much thought.
It is almost immediate. A positive example of reaction is when someone is about
to walk into a pole; you see it and yank them away from the impending knot to
their head. A negative example of reaction is reading an email, then writing a long
diatribe and hitting send before you have taken time to calm down. I think we all
know how well that works out...

Responding takes more thought. To respond to an event, a comment, or
even a threat is more calculated than a reaction. We decide to do this, whereas
a reaction is usually immediate. A response can be immediate if we have already