---
title: The Art of Structural Integrity
---
THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

two people just like a relationship. The gap between two people, the things that
separate them, could be distance, race, socio-economic status, religion, politics,
and so on. To bridge that gap, it needs to have several things. Footings or
supports, decking, and suspension cables. Think of each person on each side of
the gap as a footing, which needs to be grounded in a foundation that is deep
enough to support the weight of the bridge, the relationship. This requires both
people to dig way down deep to uncover many things in their life they may
prefer to keep hidden, such as sin, evil, or selfish desires. Then they need Jesus
to replace what they are digging out with a stable, strong footing or support
that can hold the bridge (relationship) when the waves of life come crashing in
(1 Cor. 3:11).

Only when two people have done the hard work of shoring up their own
foundation, digging deep into the bedrock to provide stability for the relation-
ship, can they then begin to span the gap with the decking, using for its support
suspension cables that will hold the relationship in place. These suspension
cables are the fruits of the Spirit mentioned before, and also things like trust,
vulnerability, humility, support, respect, honesty, and forgiveness.

Any relationship built with God as the foundation is structurally sound. Its
structural integrity will stand the test of time, and the relationship will endure
against the elements of life that come crashing against the supports, including
the winds of change that blow against it (Luke 6:46–49).

How structurally sound are the relationships in your own life? Are they
built on trust, teamwork, collaboration, and mutual respect? Do they reflect
the fruits of the Spirit? Spend some time today reflecting on a few of your key
relationships to see if any building blocks need your attention. Any time spent
strengthening your relationships is time well spent.