| 84 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

develop a connection. We would be spending eternity together at some point, so
why not start now?

We extended the same courtesy of relationship, inviting their church to
come and worship with us. It wasn’t supposed to be something we did on a
regular basis but more of a learning exercise. The outcome was incredible; our
eyes were opened to a different expression of love toward God—one church
followed a liturgy, and the other (even though planned) followed a free-form
schedule; one pastor wore a robe, and the other wore jeans and a button-down
shirt; one congregation wore business casual, and the other casual comfortable.
But we all worshipped Jesus Christ for all that he is.

There was no fear that people from either church were going to leave and
become a part of the other. And there was no fear that we would get into lengthy
disagreements on doctrine or arguments over which style of worship was better. It
was an eye-opening experience for some of the leaders on my team, to say the least.

### Different Ethnicities—Still the Same Creator

It was a few weeks before Easter, the celebration of Jesus’ resurrection. A
group of us pastors who met on a monthly basis included one pastor of a church
called Successful Christian Fellowship, which was located in a community that
very closely represented the ethnicity in their church—mostly African American.
The church I pastored was also an even representation of the community we
were serving, which was about fifty percent Caucasian, thirty percent Spanish,
and the rest African American and various other ethnicities.

In building the relationship with the pastor there, our church leadership felt
very strongly about having a joint service with their church at our location. The
plan was to have everyone sit next to someone from the other church, worship
together as we sang, take a joint offering, of which, we would split between the
two churches, I would preach, and at the end of the service, our leadership team
would wash the feet of their leadership team.^7

What happened at that service was one of the most powerful connections
in relationship I have experienced. Some might think this was a cheesy attempt
to show reconciliation and integration. But those who might think this had to
experience the humility that was evident by both sides during that ceremony
to understand what had taken place. It accomplished a lasting impression and
change in perspective for everyone in our churches about unity in relationship
that Jesus intended from the very beginning.

After that, our church was invited to participate in a joint Good Friday
service with five or six other churches. I was asked to speak on one of the