---
title: Overcoming Jealousy
---
THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

When someone else gets a promotion at work...

When one of our closest relatives makes more money...

When someone else gets the job we wanted...

When someone else buys a 70-inch television, and now our 65-inch is not
good enough...

When someone else has the affections of a person we desire to be with...
In a word— _jealousy_. While this will not be a chapter teaching all about
dog behavior, there is some value in trying to understand the concept of jealousy
through the dogs’ example. The truth is that most of us have said the words “I’m
jealous of...” at some point in our lives. We become jealous when we observe
someone obtain, purchase, love, own, and enjoy an object, job, relationship,
or whatever it is that we would like to have. Jealousy can be very ugly and is
another big obstacle that we must overcome to have meaningful and long-last-
ing relationships with others.

Jealousy focuses our attention on what we _do not_ have and our perception
of what someone else _does_ have. It is very self-focused. We often see jealousy
rear its ugly head in romantic relationships and it ends up tearing those relation-
ships apart. A man or a woman becomes jealous of the object of their affection’s
time or any other person (or thing) capturing their attention. The problem is that
it usually has the adverse effect than intended, which is that the other person
would notice the jealous behavior and do whatever is needed to appease it. But
actually, the object of the jealousy feels so restricted that all they desire to do is
break free. The jealousy response ultimately breaks down trust between couples
if it is not dealt with.

However, I must add that signs of jealousy, when handled appropriately,
can actually make a relationship stronger. Let me give you an example. I tend to
work... _a lot._ When I work so many hours, I am not at home. Even when I am
at home, I am not “at home” in my mind. My wife sometimes gets to the point
where she will not-so-subtly remind me when I am not present. I have learned to
recognize when she says certain things that she has healthy jealousy of my time
spent away. Adjusting my work schedule and becoming more intentional about
being at home and present with my family all but erases any feelings of jealousy
creeping up in our relationship.

What causes jealousy? In a phrase: wanting for ourselves what we believe
someone else has. In my wife’s case, her jealousy concerned more than just her—
she wanted the time and attention I was spending on everything and everyone
else to be spent on both her and the kids. A reasonable request that husbands
and fathers would be well advised to mind.