# Acknowledgments 

This book did not happen without relationships. There have been so many
people in my life that have played a role in teaching me about how to love
your neighbor as yourself.

The most important relationship in my life is with God. Jesus did so much to
show how much He loved me. I only want to honor Him in everything I say and
do, loving Him with all my mind, all my strength, and all my heart.

After God, the most important person in my life is the amazing woman I
get to spend my life with, my wife, Tania. She has been the greatest champion,
support, love, partner, and spouse a man could ever ask for. I love you, Tania!
Thank you so much for cheering me on!

I would like to thank both of my daughters, Margaux and Miriam. Thank
you for your love, your passion, and your lives. You both have always encour-
aged me to lean into my passions and desires for ministry. I only want to be the
best example of a father to you.

My dad has been one of the best examples of a man who lives what he
believes, acts on what he teaches, and honors God and others. Thank you, Dad,
for believing in me and saying the words over and over, “You can do whatever
you set your mind to. Your mom and I love you and only want you to do your
best at what you choose to do.” I love you, dad!

Thank you, Ken and Tara Nelson, for giving me your daughter, Tania,
in marriage. This was the single greatest gift you could have ever given. Your
encouragement and prayers have been incredible.

To my best friend in college, Brian Coscia, thank you for the long talks,
brotherly love, prayers, and always just picking up where we left off when we
talk. I love you like a brother and only wish that our life’s journey would have
been way closer than across the country.

Thank you, Dr. Greg Miller, for your mentorship during the six-month period
that shaped my ministry, decisions, and relationships for the rest of my life!

```
xiii
```
