---
title: The Art of Relationship
---

THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

story. However, what I have found in meeting people and developing relation-
ship is that there are at least eight different levels that each connection may go
through on the road to developing a deep and meaningful relationship. The first
four build on each other, but the last four are all about getting to know someone.

### **1. Notice them**

Yes, the first step in any relationship is as basic as knowing that someone
even exists. It may be that you notice a person from across the room or they
walk down the same street at the same time you do every day. Maybe the person
works at your office or church and passes your line of sight and you “notice”
them. You may have even been in the same church, neighborhood, or work
environment for years and not noticed them until you became intentional about
noticing them and now you do.

Other people can help us notice others too. We learn about a person
through another friend or acquaintance, and the purpose of them informing you
of their existence is because they think it could be a strategic relationship or just
one that could be mutually beneficial.

This is the level of relationship where you know _of_ someone. If the bits of
details and information intrigue you just enough, then you go to the next level
of relationship.

### **2. Meet them**

This level takes a bit of effort and perhaps even some bravery on our part.
Just because I have seen or heard of a person, does not mean they have seen or
heard of me. Or they may have heard of me and already developed a precon-
ceived notion, most likely in error. I am not really sure if the introduction would
be welcome, but I know that to move forward with the relationship, meeting
them is critical.

This can be quite difficult for some to do. Our fears can overtake us,
depending on our past, our confidence, or our feelings. However, moving
forward means that we must overcome these fears and insecurities, or else we
won’t be able to establish new relationships really. (If you find you are having
trouble in this area, it would be best to seek help from a counselor, pastor, or a
mentor to work on this.)

The types of fears that can keep us from moving forward are rejection,
feelings of insecurity, inadequacy, or even fear of someone knowing you have
these fears. After noticing someone and assessing the value this person could