```
THE ART OF COMMUNITY 145 |
```
to check out the app he had opened. It was a pre-release app for Museum of
the Bible—a non-profit started by the Green Family who own and operate the
major national craft store Hobby Lobby.

He had my attention.
Scott invited me to come to Los Angeles for an awareness event for the
museum to gain support for the project. I could not pass up the opportunity to
get in front of people I would never have dreamed of being in front of.

When I walked in, I met a man, and we exchanged life journeys while
mingling before the event. He happened to be the one who wrote, directed, and
produced the movie _Barbershop_.

When the event was about to begin, a friend of his came in, and he intro-
duced me to him. His name is Dave Drever, and get this—Dave lives just down
the road from me in Northern California, a mere six-hour drive from where we
met in Hollywood.

The reason why I mention this story, which at this point has no end to it,
is because it is a current story playing itself out all because of being obedient
to what I believe God was asking me to do; that is, to get connected and take
every opportunity to build relationship and expand my community. All of this
started because I connected with people. The story goes on, and I am so glad
to be a part of it.

Don’t underestimate the effectiveness and power of expanding your
community of friends and connections. All it takes is some time, intentional-
ity, asking some good questions, a listening ear, and allowing yourself to know
others and be known by them. From this, you will be surprised at how the hand
of God is working, even though it may take time.

Building a community is more than just making an infinite number of
connections. It is being an influence for Christ in as many arenas as possible,
which gives you more opportunity to be an extension of God’s hand in this
world. Plant seeds of relationship. Be patient. Nurture these new relationships
and stay connected to the ones you have always had. Pray and trust God to
work through them.

