---
title: The Art of Community
---
THE ART OF COMMUNITY
{: class="page__topic"}

well. Actually, it really sucked, until I read an article about a man that decided
for several months to ask questions of people where he knew he would receive a
negative response. His goal was to learn how to handle rejection.

It is ironic. After I realized that rejection could be a closed door and that
you just need to keep knocking on _other_ doors to see which one would open
(instead of knocking on the same door waiting for it to open...eventually), that
is when my coffee/lunch times started to gain traction.

I took a couple of pastors for lunch or a coffee. Some pastors were very
skeptical of me, to the point of inferring I was only trying to sell them something.
Others would hear my heart and what I was trying to accomplish and offer
advice on how to move forward. At each meeting I attended with a pastor or
business person, they dropped names of people they felt like I should connect
with and provided their contact info.

I called every single one. This was laying the foundation of what I could
build on.

For the most part, people I called agreed to a meeting with me due to the
name of the person who provided their info. I found myself having coffee or
lunch several times per week, getting new names and meeting new people. Not
every person I met has turned into a relationship. Not every seed you plant in a
relationship will be sown in fertile soil. Some heart soil is already at capacity for
relationships at that moment.

Through this process, I reconnected with a mentor of mine; I’ve mentioned
him in another chapter, Steve Preston. His counsel and advice helped me
immensely. Plus, rekindling a friendship just enriched our connection.

Very close to our arrival in Northern California, I reached out to the leader
of the district of the denomination where I am ordained. His assistant helped
me get on his calendar for lunch. He was not available for a couple months, so
I set up a meeting with the district’s secretary/treasurer. We sat in his office for
over an hour getting to know each other. I started off with him like I did with
everyone else: “Where were you born?” and “How did you get to where you are
right now?”

After meeting with him, I met with the superintendent for lunch, which
included the secretary/treasurer, at a Mexican restaurant close to their offices.
Because of what I was trying to accomplish in ministry, they recommended I
meet with Dr. Sam Huddleston, the Assistant Superintendent of the Northern
California District of the denomination.

My reason for meeting him up front was to let him know about the ministry
I was starting in Northern California. From that initial meeting, he invited me to