| 132 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

_men and women are here_ **_with_** _you to lead this community. You
would do well to build a relationship with them, trust them,
and bring them_ **_with_** _you. Authority means nothing without
influence.”_
I had been successfully rebuked, and rightly so. I had allowed my fear of
leading through this transition to guide my actions. As we so often do at times,
we feel the more we take control in a relationship, the more we will “feel” as if
things are going well.

Relationships cannot be successfully controlled. But they can be influenced.
In leadership, sometimes the best we can hope for is that through relationship
someone decides willingly to look to us because we have proven to them we care
for them and have their best interests in our thoughts and decisions; that we are
consistent in our lives and have a relationship with God.

After that much-needed conversation with me, he sat down with the board
at the next meeting (his last with us) and passed the baton over to me as the
interim senior pastor. At that moment, I watched as he used his _influence_ with
the leadership team to delegate _authority_ to someone who probably did not
deserve it.

I realized something important at that moment. If I could consistently live
in relationship with others, thinking of myself soberly and with good judgment,
people could decide to allow me to lead them. This relationship with them
would make it easier to say, “I will walk with you. I will fight alongside you. I
will support you. I will live life with you.”

If my relationship with God is not in the right place, which takes consistency
and persistence on my part, then I could not maintain focus on my relationship
with others, serve them in humility, and lead them with God-honoring confi-
dence in His ability to lead me.

I learned more in that first year of ministry outside of college than I had in
all my previous years of education about relationships. Specifically, I had learned
that influence is earned and that authority means nothing without influence.

# Our Influence as Salt and Light

```
“You are the salt of the earth. But what good is salt if it has
lost its flavor? Can you make it salty again? It will be thrown
out and trampled underfoot as worthless. You are the light of
the world – like a city on a hilltop that cannot be hidden. No
one lights a lamp and then puts it under a basket. Instead, a
lamp is placed on a stand, where it gives light to everyone in
```
