<div markdown="1" class="book-intro">
Our churches are packed with people who claim to believe in Jesus...but don’t
actually do anything he said! This book will make you laugh and cry. It will
make you look at things in a fresh new way. And it will definitely make you
uncomfortable. Which might be a good thing because ultimately Dan calls us to
live, love, and lead like the Jesus we claim to follow.

> — <cite>RAY JOHNSTON</cite>, author of The hope QuoTienT and founding
> and lead pastor at Bayside Church, Roseville, California

Most Christian books are about our most important vertical relationship—
us and God—but this book explores what those books don’t: the horizontal
relationship we are called to as human beings—the relationships we must have
with one another. Indeed, this is a lost art that Dan recovers and teaches us
about with heart and logic at every turn. I highly recommend it!


> —<cite>MARK CLARK<cite>, author of The problem of God and lead
> pastor at Village Church, Surrey, British Columbia, Canada

I still recall the first time Dan came into my office. I couldn’t understand why
he was so persistent in us meeting. I wondered, what did he want? It didn’t
take long before I found out...a relationship with me, a stranger whom he only
knew by name! He began with wanting to hear my story. I wanted to hand
him a copy of my book _Five Years to Life_ but decided against it. I then asked
him to tell me his story. I don’t recall much of it because I never got beyond
the story of his father and how he crossed cultural barriers and built relation-
ships lasting over thirty-plus years with individuals that started out as strangers.

This let me know what was “in” Dan. By the time he was done telling me that
story I knew we would be brothers. We have had many meetings since that initial
one. We have laughed, cried, and ate a lot together...maybe too much! Dan has
the gift of risk-taking in seeking out and building relationships. As he writes in
this book, step one in building relationships is noticing someone, the last step if
you get that far is you become family. If you want a quick fix to relationships,
don’t read this book. But, if you want to learn how to build life-long, meaningful
friendships, then this book might be for you.
</div>