| 14 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

I consider myself a “student of relationship,” but by no means would I ever
claim to be an expert in relationship. If anyone claims to be an expert, then I
challenge you to find the weak spot in their life, which lies with those closest to
them. While we walk this earth, we will be ever-learning not just how to co-exist
with other human beings, but to develop healthy, meaningful relationships.

When God gave Moses the Ten Commandments after the people of Israel
left Egypt, all ten related to vertical and horizontal relationships. The first four
were about a relationship with God, and the second set of six was about our
relationships with each other. Jesus was often questioned by religious leaders
trying to trap him. In one case, they asked him which of the Ten Commandments
is the most important. His response was the following:

“‘You must love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your
soul and all your mind.’ This is the first and greatest command-
ment. A second is equally important: ‘Love your neighbor as
yourself.’ The entire law and all the demands of the prophets are
based on these two commandments.” (Matt. 22:37–39, NLT)
These two commandments point us to a vertical relationship with God
(love the Lord your God) and horizontal relationships with each other (love
your neighbor as yourself). Churches do a pretty decent job at helping us under-
stand the need for and importance of a relationship with God, however, it can be
quite challenging to tread the ground of relationships with each other.

My purpose _through relationship_ is to help others discover how to live
out the second commandment Jesus gave. I feel it is my number one priority
to discover, study, and teach how to love your neighbor as yourself. In some
respects, it is a lost commandment—the lost art of relationship.

This book is my journey of discovery in relationship. As you read through
this book and begin the archaeological dig to discover how to love your neighbor
as you love yourself, I desire that you will see similarities of your life in mine and
also learn the same lessons (or confirm those you have discovered) through some
of the stories I share. I hope you will look back on your own life and think about
your own life lessons and the people in your life who taught you what you know
today. Digging into your memories is challenging and rewarding but worth it.

I encourage you to think about the principles we will cover in the context
of everyone you come in contact with. This book is not a marriage-help book,
dating book, or even a how-to-get-along-with-your-family book. It is about our
relationships with all human beings who inhabit this world.

```
It’s about rediscovering the Lost Art of Relationship.
```
