| 26 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

have ever known. She knew how to strike up a conversation and ask the right
questions to get someone to open up.

At family events, she made sure everyone was comfortable, had enough to
eat, and that we all pitched in to clean up. My brother and I were often drafted
into much of the work and effort she put into serving others, as well as my dad.

As I look back, I realize that she probably sacrificed more energy than
she had to give. She didn’t have an outlet to care for her own self physically,
emotionally, or psychologically, short of talking to my dad and her sisters.

She loved children. She lit up when she could work with them. She became
the Sunday School Superintendent, taught classes at church, and even worked
her way up to Director of a day-care center, which served children before and
after school. She lived and breathed serving kids.

At her funeral, hundreds of people were there. Many had not seen my
mom for years, but countless people came up to me and told me stories of how
my mom had influenced their lives and how grateful they were for our family
sharing her with them. It brings tears to my eyes just thinking about it.

A relationship cannot happen unless people are willing to give of themselves
to others—this was a significant lesson I learned from her. I can recount so many
memories where I watched my mom place others’ needs above her own. Serving
and having the mindset of service can and will have an incredible impact on
others’ lives. They may not even realize it until you are gone, but the basic
foundation of service is to do for others as you would want them to do for
you. There is no expectation of how they will respond or whether they will
reciprocate.

One thing is for sure...she loved others to a fault. She taught me to be
keenly aware of the needs and emotions of those around me—to keep a watchful
eye on the one who seemed to be isolated and find a way to include them. She
taught me how to be a servant in relationships. The only thing I would have
coached her to do differently is to make sure she spent time feeding her own
soul and body, so she could have a healthy balance of service and refreshment.

When I finally got to Baltimore, I wasn’t allowed to see my mother until
the funeral home had prepared her for viewing. I walked into the funeral home,
through the door of the viewing room, and up to the casket. At the precise
moment when I saw her for the first time, I literally fell to my knees, broke
down, and sobbed. The grief was almost unbearable.

There was this treasure of a woman who I was privileged to call mother,
laying in a casket. I know all of the ways people encourage someone in that kind
of grief and loss. However, nothing was going to bring her back.