<div markdown="1" class="book-intro">
I heard and, most importantly, have watched Dan Chrystal communicate and
live out these principles almost a decade ago. I am so thrilled that he has taken
the leap to make these timeless and practical truths available to a larger audience.
Not only are you going to enjoy this book, I have a strong hunch that you will
never forget it and recommend it to others!

> — <cite>GAVIN BROWN</cite>, senior pastor of Lifehouse Church,
> Beltsville, Maryland, http://www.mylifehouse.church

_The Lost Art of Relationship_ is like a road map to finding, building, and treasur-
ing friendships. In spite of all of the “friends” we may have through social media,
never before have people seemed so adrift of meaningful, face-to-face relation-
ships. Dan’s book provides practical “how-to” advice on finding, building, and
valuing close friendships. If you are someone who longs for deeper connections,
then Dan’s book was written for you!

> — <cite>CHRIS BUENO</cite>, Chief Executive Officer
> of Ocean Avenue Entertainment

Dan and I have lived out the contents of this book through our friendship. I believe
Dan’s heart for relationships is one of the keys to releasing the kingdom of heaven
on earth. My prayer is that everyone who reads this book will be inspired by Dan
to become an artist in the golden rule and see God’s heart in action.

> — <cite>DAVE DREVER</cite>, founder and Chief Executive Officer at Freely

Dan Chrystal has written a must-read for anyone considering leading others. His
professional personal experiences and knowledge of people make this book a
must-read for anyone desiring to build healthy teams and relationships.

> — <cite>HEIDI HENSLEY</cite>, children’s pastor at Shadow
> Mountain Church, San Diego, California
</div>