| 28 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

What I do remember is that because of the progression of the two pivotal points
mentioned earlier, my mom and I had started to argue...a lot. Between the age
of twelve and just about fourteen, my rebelliousness had risen to new heights. It
was difficult for my mom to control. In fact, she just couldn’t.

We were in the heat of an argument (subject unknown). I had targeted my
mother with rebellion. Maybe because she was four feet eleven and ¾ inches
and I was growing to five feet and a half —I’m not sure. At the height of the
argument, my mom said these powerful words...

_“If you don’t stop this bad behavior, you will never amount to anything!”_
I don’t know if you have ever been affected by a comment your mother or
father made to you, but this comment has stuck with me for almost thirty years.
Little did she know it would change me for the rest of my life. How I decided
(and currently decide) to allow it to change me are entirely different. More on
that later. This event, a momentary lapse in judgment and her saying something
that scarred me for a long time, taught me so much about the need and impor-
tance for reconciliation in relationships.

You see, I had allowed this comment to become the focus of my life. I
wanted to prove her wrong. That I _would_ make something of my life. Any time
anyone would even allude to the fact that I could not do something, it became
my mission to prove them wrong. Sure, I accomplished things, but my motive
was in error. T.S. Elliot wrote in _Murder in the Cathedral_ , “The last act is the
greatest treason. To do the right deed for the wrong reason.”³

My relationship with my mother was wounded, and when I became an adult,
we only talked when it was necessary. When I left home, I had no intention of
going back to Baltimore. I moved to Pennsylvania for college, was recruited to
inner-city New Jersey for work and ministry, met my wife and moved to Califor-
nia, got married with an instant family (my wife had our oldest daughter before
we met), and my wife and I had a baby together in 2000.

Life was passing by, but my relationship with my mom remained wounded.
The scab had crusted over, but never fully healed. I’m confident that all of my
other relationships were affected by the lack of reconciliation in my relationship
with mom.

# From Rift to Reconciliation

It was September 11, 2001. We lived in Los Angeles, CA, in the UCLA
family housing on the corner of Sawtelle and National Boulevards. My mom and
dad came for a week-long visit with us, and dad flew back home on September 9
because he had to get back to work. Mom stayed a couple of extra days.

