---
title: The Art of Community
---
THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

are immediately around us, those we get along with the best, and we enjoy the
seemingly solid state of our group. That is until something changes in the group.

We should still stay connected and nurture those relationships. However,
realizing we have more capacity for more relationships is critical to branching
out with other people.

### Trusting God for the Results

One thing I have learned over the years is that I could never have orches-
trated or planned how the relationships I have developed would have looked
or taken shape. There is a _huge_ element in this process I haven’t mentioned yet.

I fully believe that when we connect with others, God will use us and
those in our community of relationships to benefit those around the greater
community. This enhances the relationships in the community. Eventually, this
will positively influence those who will become a part of that greater community
because of our willingness to reach out way beyond what we think we are
capable of.

We will never know how God can use us in that way unless we make the
decision to reach out and plant the seeds of relationship with others. Praying
about how we can do this will open up opportunities you may have never
noticed before.

One of the main reasons I began this book was because of the advice of
someone I recently connected with when our communities collided. It was over
coffee one summer afternoon where Roger Flessing, a man with an incredible
community of relationships, said the one thing that I needed to inspire me to
write in a way I had never thought of.

We both wanted to get to know each other and our life/faith journeys.
We went to coffee and BOOM! From that one conversation, I had the key
that I needed to fulfill a lifelong desire to write and complete the work you are
reading now. It was so simple! And I am trusting God with the results.

One more connection loop...a friend named Charlie Harrison, who joined
the Rotary Club of Roseville just a couple months before me, played golf and
met a gentleman named Scott Lewis. Charlie and I had taken time to get to
know each other over coffee. While playing golf with Scott, he determined that
Scott would be a great person for me to get connected with. He mentioned my
name to Scott, and he was interested in connecting.

The ball was now in my court. I contacted Scott, and we met for coffee at
a local spot. When he came in, he laid his phone down on the table and told me