| 66 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

tight, but my parents never made it seem like we needed anything. My dad
looked for work, went out almost daily to find a job, and filled out applications
with subsequent interviews.

Whether right or wrong, my dad chose to keep the family in Maryland
and placed himself in a tight position. We could have lost our home. We may
have had to move anyway, but at least we were all around our support system.
It helped that our extended family on my dad’s side were all within an hour of
where we lived.

As most children do, I have graphic memories of specific moments in my
childhood. Some of them are good and some not so good. One such memory
was hearing racial jokes in the house. It was mid- to late-1970s, and the civil
rights decisions of the 50s and 60s were set, but there were residual behaviors
that stayed long after.

I can remember hearing the “N” word in my house, especially when one
person, in particular, would come to visit. I was young, but I remember thinking
that I could not understand why anyone would think or act this way. We are all
just people in the end.

My father searched and searched for a position in many different grocery
stores. There was one that finally offered him a job in management. The name
of the store was Super Allied (name changed for privacy) run by a CEO named
Edward Kerns (name changed for privacy). Mr. Kerns, as my dad would call
him, was a good man who provided a position for my father, saving our family
from what would have been a tough road, if not for the income.

Mr. Kerns was an African American. My father, when hired, was the only
white manager on staff and would remain the only white manager during his
entire tenure there. My father did not divulge much of the following information
until I was much older. The first day he met Mr. Kerns, he walked right up to
my dad and said, “I guess someone may have told you by now, I don’t like
white people very much.” To which my dad replied, “Give me six months, and I
guarantee you will not have any problems with me.”

He never did have any further issues with Mr. Kerns. As a matter of fact,
there was mutual respect and admiration that blossomed between them. My dad
experienced a change in his life, in his perspective, and in his relationships. Some
of the friendships that arose and developed with those of a different ethnicity
became some of the closest he would ever have.

Even though he had developed meaningful friendships with these men, at
the customer level, he wasn’t treated with as much respect. He told me stories
of working in several of the Super Allied stores, where he was cussed out, using