Thank you, Chris Bueno and Dave Drever, for your friendship, coffee times,
investing in prayer for my family and me, and for allowing me into your lives. I
cannot wait to see what is still yet to come because of our relationships!

Thank you, Eric Unterberger, for taking on the promotional challenge of
this project! So many more people will come to understand how to love their
neighbor as themselves because of your design expertise, relentless desire to get
the message of Christ out, and simply to help people get an idea from concept
to reality!

What can I say about Eric Knopf? This guy has the drive to keep moving
forward like a freight train in business, ministry, and life! He loves God, loves
his family, and wants to use what God has provided him to elevate others and
give them a platform for their ideas. You are an example to me, and I will be
forever grateful for your belief in me and in this project. I am stoked to see how
our friendship will have a lasting influence on as many lives as we can impact!

To the fantastic group of people that read this book when it was first written,
and you offered your feedback, edits, changes, time, and prayers—thank you so
much! Your time and critical feedback were more valuable than you may ever
know! This focus group included the following beautiful souls...Karen Kiyoko
Bregar, Captain Molly Lawlor, Hannah Montez, Mariann Eitzman, Zach Dutra,
Paul Bryers, and Chris Bueno. We made it to the finish line!

Thank you to Brené Brown for your research, your TED Talk, and incredi-
ble insights into vulnerability and relationship! I have not met you, but it would
be phenomenal to get you, Bono from U2, and Elon Musk around a dinner table
so we could exchange life stories!

Thank you to every relational connection I have ever had, have, and will
have wherever I get to do life! There are still so many people I am excited to
meet! If you are reading this, email me at thesophosgroup@gmail.com and
introduce yourself! Maybe one day our paths will cross.

Finally, I want to thank from the bottom of my heart, Roger Flessing. It was
on a summer day three years ago where you said something that brought this
project into reality. I had started and never finished at least fifteen books because
I could not decide what I should write about. You asked if I had stories. I said,
“yes.” You said, “Just start writing your stories, and after about four or five of
them, you will know exactly what you are supposed to write about.” Four or five
stories later, the _Lost Art of Relationship_ was born. Thank you for your wisdom
and friendship.

# F

```
xv
```
