---
title: The Art of Influence
---
THE ART OF INFLUENCE
{: class="page__topic"}

> the house. In the same way, let your good deeds shine out for
> all to see so that everyone will praise your heavenly Father.”
> (Matt. 5:13)

In the Scripture above, Jesus uses two metaphors to describe the influence
that Christians have—salt and light. Both of these natural elements have
amazing qualities that influence their environments. We can learn a lot about
how we can influence the people around us by understanding their properties.
Let’s start with salt.

_Salt influences everything it touches._ If you put salt on a wound, it burns
but also heals. If you put salt on food, it brings out the flavor of the food. Salt
has so many uses. Reader’s Digest has an article entitled “60+ Ways to Use
Salt” by Trish Barber.^13 I picked out a few that can teach us something about
how we use our influence to live in relationship with those around us:

- _Hold artificial flowers in place._ Fill a vase or container with
    salt, add a little cold water, and arrange your artificial flowers.
    The salt will _solidify_ , and the flowers will stay put.
- _Eases fireplace cleanup._ When you’re ready to turn in for
    the night but the fire is still glowing in the hearth, douse the
    flames with salt. The fire will burn out more quickly, so you’ll
    wind up with less soot than if you let it smolder. Cleanup is
    easier, too, because the salt helps the ashes and residue _gather_
    into easy sweepings.
- _Restores sponges._ Hand sponges and mop sponges usually get
    grungy beyond use long before they are really worn out. To
    _restore_ sponges to a pristine state, soak them overnight in a
    solution of about ¼ cup salt per quart (liter) of water.
- _Freshens your garbage disposal._ Is an unpleasant odor wafting
    from your garbage disposal? _Freshen_ it up with salt. Just
    dump in ½ cup salt, run the cold water, and start the disposal.
    The salt will dislodge stuck waste and neutralize odors.
- _Speeds up cooking time._ In a hurry? Add a pinch or two of
    salt to the water you are boiling food in. This makes the water
    boil at a _higher temperature_ so the food you are cooking will
    require less time on the stovetop. Keep in mind: salt does not
    make the water boil faster.
- _Revitalizes skin and boosts circulation._ Remove dead skin
    particles and boost your circulation. Either while still in the
    tub, or just after stepping out of the tub, while your skin is