```
171
```
22.
{: class="chapter__number"}

## The Art of Honesty
{: class="chapter__subtitle"}

> “The real things haven’t changed. It is still best to be honest and
> truthful; to make the most of what we have; to be happy with
> simple pleasures; and have courage when things go wrong.”
> ~ Laura Ingalls Wilder
{: class="has-text-center"}

> “To believe in something, and not to live it, is dishonest.”
> ~ Mahatma Gandhi
{: class="has-text-center"}

There were several weeks in 2015 when I had little to no motivation to
write about relationships. Watching the fallout of the racial tension from
Ferguson, the evil activities of terrorists in the Middle East, and my own battle
with my identity had almost erased my desire to encourage people toward
better and meaningful relationships. Then I was reminded of the importance
that one voice might have in a dark world of preconceived notions, ignorance,
and prevalent deception. I can choose to influence others with the truth about
relationships. It is difficult. It is downright messy at times, but the reward of even
just one changed relationship is worth it. One voice _can_ have an impact.
{: class="chapter__first-p"}

It occurred to me that one of the most significant deterrents to healthy,
meaningful relationships is deception and lying. We believe what is being
presented to us (without testing), and we hide the truth because we are afraid
of what others may think about us. Deception is one of God’s primary concerns
because He knows it separates us in the relationship with Him and each other.

Recently, I was reading about how early we as humans learn the skill of
deception.^22 It was pointed out that as young as six months old, a child will come
to understand that if she cries, someone will come and give her attention. At
first, the cries are signals for food, a wet diaper, or affection. Then, like Pavlov’s
dog and the bell that became the stimulus for action, the parent responds out