| 166 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

```
Trust can be restored. Relationships can be reconciled when we
embrace vulnerability.
```
**2. Treat others as we want to be treated (Matt. 7:12).**
When we are considerate of others and their failings, we
    understand that we, too, are one decision or action away from
    breaking trust with someone. How would we want to be treated
    if we failed someone? We would want them to show us mercy,
    and we would want them to withhold judgment. The Scriptures
    tell us:
       “We who are strong must be considerate of those who
          are sensitive about things like this. We must not just
          please ourselves. We should help others do what is
          right and build them up in the Lord.” (Rom. 15:1–2)
       “...because judgment without mercy will be shown to
          anyone who has not been merciful. Mercy triumphs
          over judgment.” (James 2:13)
       “Why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your
          brother’s eye and pay no attention to the plank in your
          own eye? How can you say to your brother, ‘Let me
          take the speck out of your eye,’ when all the time there
          is a plank in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take
          the plank out of your own eye, and then you will see
          clearly to remove the speck from your brother’s eye.”
          (Matt. 7:3–5)
We can be merciful and lead others to become more trustworthy, and we
can work on our own trustworthiness. We can have more grace toward others
when they fail us, and we can show mercy because we have been shown mercy.
This will help repair broken trust.

# Trust Requires Risk

Without trust, we cannot maintain deep relationships with others. It is a
thread through all we do. In an article in _Psychology Today,_ Peg Streep says the
following:

```
Trust is the foundation of all human connections, from chance
encounters to friendships and intimate relationships. It governs
all the interactions we have with each other. No one would
drive a car or walk down a sidewalk, or board a train or an
```
