| 174 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

candid. But this seems to be a rarity nowadays and should be looked at. Lies slowly
chip away at a relationship until there is nothing left that remotely resembles one.
When someone is caught in a lie, whatever trust was there is eradicated by one
phrase from the tongue.

I always taught my daughters while they were growing up that there are two
things their mom and I would never tolerate in the home:

_lying, and
disrespecting another individual_

The reason we cannot tolerate those behaviors is that they are both self-serv-
ing and either one can destroy the relationship between two people. Ask yourself
if it is worth killing the trust between you and a close friend or family member
over one act of defiance, lack of trust, or desire to avoid a messy confrontation?
Chances are if your relationship cannot withstand an error by either party, then
the relationship was not built on the solid ground of truth and authenticity in the
first place.

Take a day and perform an experiment. Go through your day and become
aware of who you are talking to and what you are saying. Take inventory of your
words and conversations, and notice when you tell a lie or try to deceive someone
into thinking a certain way. I would bet that you will be _surprised_ at how many
times you catch yourself being dishonest. By-the-way, you cannot simply tag on
the phrase “just kidding” after you do so. Sooner or later others will see through
the ruse, and your true colors will come to the surface.

Dishonesty adds a heavy burden to our relationships. When we lie, we have to
remember who we said what to keep our story straight; otherwise we are exposed.
We can then start to believe the lie ourselves. Honesty relieves that burden.

Every day we should work toward honesty. Your relationships will become
less of a struggle when you just tell the truth. Of course, the truth you tell must be
mixed with love. If it is not combined with love, you endanger the relationship,
and people will be less inclined to be your friend.

### Commit to Honesty

If we are people who genuinely desire healthy, lasting relationships, then
we must commit to the art of honesty. So where do we start? The easy answer
is _“do not lie.”_

Enough said.

Actually, I wish it were that easy. If being honest and truthful was easy, then
we would not deceive each other so easily and freely.