```
THE ART OF TRANSCENDING DIFFERENCES 67 |
```
every profane word to describe his whiteness. Many people treated him very
poorly because of the color of his skin. This experience completely changed his
perspective. Being the only white manager in a predominantly black working
culture gave him a taste of what it is probably like for a black man in a mostly
white society.

I would not understand this until much later in life, but watching this as I
grew into a man strongly influenced my behavior, worldview, and certainly, my
life’s work. I experienced my father embrace others of a different skin color and
begin to develop deep and meaningful friendships with many men and women
who looked different than us. My dad was respected and included in this work
culture. He recounted with me on occasion that some of the closest friendships
he had were with men from Super Allied. This position provided for the family
until I was long out of the house.

While this position changed my father’s viewpoint, subsequently it changed
mine as well. Because of his example, it became easy for me to accept, befriend,
include, and even champion the backgrounds and people who looked different
than me.

Mr. Kerns retired after some time, and another man named Obadiah
Schmidt Jr. had taken over the Super Allied local markets. My father was not
only able to keep the level of respect with the new CEO but also became very
close friends with him.

Two other great men became pivotal in my dad’s life—Quentin Murray
and Ted Knox. They befriended him and gave him counsel that allowed him
to grow in his relationships. Many years later, my dad still gets together for
lunch with these men who played such a huge role in his life. Not only that but
when Super Allied closed down because of national chains taking over, Quentin
Murray, who had since moved on from Super Allied, was vital in my dad moving
over to another manager position at another supermarket, Food King.

The racism my dad endured during some of those days was incredibly
difficult. It could have driven him into hate and separation, but the relationships
he developed and still has today became the example to me of what it means to
treat every person with respect and dignity. His example to me of humility and
perseverance in relationships has influenced my life and has shaped some of the
topics in this book.

He served others even when they were pouring out profanities to his face
because of what he looked like. He learned the art of forgiveness and the impor-
tance of not holding a grudge—two essential aspects of relationship necessary
to live a healthy life.

