---
title: The Art of Trust
---
THE ART OF TRUST
{: class="page__topic"}

worthiness before trust can be exchanged, maybe we would even be accepted
by others sooner than later. Proving trustworthiness does take time, but it is an
extremely valuable part of relationship—one worthy of mastering.

### Repairing Broken Trust

Even though trust must be present to have a healthy relationship, we must
realize at times that even those close to us will break trust on occasion. It will
happen because we are humans living in a fallen world; all of us need God’s
grace and mercy in our lives.

We have all experienced the hurt of someone who broke trust in our
relationship with them. Perhaps it was a child that lied, a co-worker that
gossiped about something private you told them, a spouse who was unfaithful,
or a pastor who had a moral failing. Maybe a close friend disappointed you in
some way, or a politician broke a promise he or she made. Really, it could be
anything anyone did that is the opposite of what they said or what you believed
would happen.

Broken trust is difficult to mend, but it is possible. I have seen marriages
come back from unfaithfulness, children come back into a trusting relationship
with their parents, and employees come back and gain the good graces of their
bosses.

How do we respond when trust is broken? What do we do? How about if
we were the one who broke trust with someone? What do we do to rebuild it?
There are two essential attitudes to embrace:

**1. Vulnerability**
When trust is broken, a gap is created between the two people,
    and we tend to fill that gap with negative thoughts, beliefs, and
    a deeper lack of trust. The only way to bridge that gap requires
    a level of vulnerability on both sides. If you show a level of
    vulnerability, it has a positive effect on your ability to prove
    trustworthy to the other person.^20<br><br>
If someone breaks your trust and they are significant to you,
    you may need to allow them to reestablish trust, which means
    taking the risk of them breaking it again. The one who is
    rebuilding the trust after it is broken needs to be vulnerable and
    allow the other person to hold them accountable by opening up
    their actions and thoughts to be tested. This process can take
    a long time, but it’s important to remember that it is possible.