| 168 THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP

set. Faithfulness can and should be a standard in our relationships.

The trouble comes when the standards become our expectations of others.
If “not lying” is a standard, our expectation can be that someone will _never_
lie to us. Since no one is perfect and all of us are one bad decision away from
making a wrong choice, we will not be able to build trust with others, especially
since we cannot even meet our own expectations in relationships with others all
of the time. This is why forgiveness is so necessary.

We build trust with others when someone wrongs us and comes to us and
asks for forgiveness. The standard would be if someone were to hurt us in some
way, they would own it and come to us to reconcile. The expectation would
be that they would _never_ wrong us. Forgiveness and reconciliation should also
become the standard because all of us fail.

We should not make our expectations the standards in our relationships.
If we do, we set our relationships up for failure from the beginning. Standards
are necessary. Expectations are our desires. The space between the two is where
we exercise forgiveness, acceptance, understanding, and humility.

# God Is Trustworthy

Jesus has more than earned our trust. He is the only One that has ever lived
a sinless life. He proved his commitment to us by taking on the sin of the world—
our sin—and loved us even before we had proven ourselves as trustworthy.

The Scriptures talk of trust and warn us not to place our _eternal_ trust in
_anyone_ other than God Himself. Jeremiah 17:5–8 says,

“This is what the Lord says, ‘Cursed are those who put their
trust in mere humans, who rely on human strength and turn
their hearts away from the Lord. They are like stunted shrubs in
the desert, with no hope for the future. They will live in barren
wilderness in an uninhabited salty land. But blessed are those
who trust in the Lord and have made the Lord their hope and
confidence. They are like trees planted along a riverbank, with
roots that reach deep into the water. Such trees are not bothered
by the heat or worried by long months of drought. Their leaves
stay green, and they never stop producing fruit.’”
Let the words of this passage sink into the deepest parts of your soul.
When we trust in our finances to provide what we need, we will never have
enough. When we trust our friends for our fulfillment, we will always come up
short of feeling fulfilled. When we trust in a leader for complete guidance, we
will not reach our full potential.

