---
title: The Art of the Question
ischapter: true
---

23.
{: class="chapter__number"}

## The Art of the Question
{: class="chapter__subtitle"}

When I met Brian Griswold, he was the children’s pastor where I had just
become the Administrative Pastor in Maryland. At just about six foot
two, he towered far above the little heads of children, and every single one of
them absolutely loved him!
{: class="chapter__first-p"}

He served in children’s ministry for almost thirty years. He has a boister-
ous laugh and an incredible sense of humor. He and his wife, Liz, created a
family for themselves where mutual discussion and opinions were welcome.
Why? Because they asked powerful questions.

Brian and I didn’t become friends right away. We grew closer as we
started to work together. By asking questions and listening to the responses,
we became great friends where trust was easy, and our families coalesced.
They brought such a different perspective into our lives, one that was new and
refreshing!

I remember when Brian decided to leave the children’s ministry and go
into counseling and family therapy. He began to ask the question, “What if?”
There is so much power in that question. In relationships, it is one of hope and
excitement, but also can be one of dismay. For the most part, when asked, it
can become a catalyst for stretching beyond our comfort zones and expanding
our community of friends, experiences, and, therefore, enriching our lives even
more.

It was when Brian left his position at the church that our friendship
really began to take off. We met for lunch often to talk about our families,
our children, the struggles we were facing, and the good things happening.
Whenever I was experiencing specific struggles, Brian always asked me
questions. These questions mined the motives of my heart, challenged me to
think about the other’s perspective, and always pointed me back to relation-
ship over pride.