---
title: Overcoming Unhealthy Relationships
---
THE LOST ART OF RELATIONSHIP
{: class="page__topic"}

relationships with people? One thing you could do is just to walk away. One
of the best ways to disconnect is to tell yourself that you need to move on, and
physically remove yourself from the individual(s) who has been an obstacle in
your life.

Some might say, “Well, we _need_ to be willing to witness and share God’s
love with everyone.” While this is true, there is nothing that says we need to
place ourselves in a compromising temptation to do so. There is an inherent
incompatibility that requires disconnection. Here are some thoughts to
remember when deciding to leave a relationship that we know is damaging.
When we disconnect, whether temporarily or indefinitely, do so...

_...with grace and truth;_

Be honest with yourself and with others about your boundaries. Dr. Henry
Cloud and Dr. John Townsend wrote an incredible work called _Boundaries:
When to Say Yes, When to Say No—To Take Control of Your Life._ When you
communicate with grace and truth, you will understand there are certain limits
which you should never cross. If someone tries to force you or you get easily
tempted to cross those lines, set a boundary in your life. You can do this with
your friends, family, work, and any relationship. The only relationship you and
I should not have boundaries with—nor can we have any boundaries with—is
with God.^9

Show dignity and separate yourself with honor for others. This is the
grace part. We are taking full responsibility for our own actions. This is not
a blame on someone else, because we are ultimately the reason we do what
we do, say what we say, and go where we go. We can honor others by being
respectful in our disconnection, not speaking poorly (slander) or microphone
dropping negative comments or remarks as we disconnect. This person is still
someone that God considers worthy of the life of Jesus on the cross.

_...in humility;_
Disconnect without turning people off from a relationship with God. We
should _never_ say, “God told me to disconnect with you.” Why place the blame
on God when we are the ones that are having the difficulty with our own
boundaries? This can be difficult to do, no doubt. However, our desire should
be to point people to Jesus, not turn them away from him. We can do this by
squarely placing the responsibility for the disconnection where it belongs—on
ourselves. This takes _humility._

When we humble ourselves, we present to those in our lives that we are
not perfect but in need of the love, forgiveness, and guidance from God. Our
relationships with others are too important to _not_ spend quality time with