```
THE ART OF FIRST IMPRESSIONS 17 |
```
Here are a few reasons, from my perspective, why first impressions are not
as accurate as we think they are.

1. First impressions do not account for the circumstances surrounding
the target of our first impression.

A person we meet for the first time could have had the absolute worst day
with few things going their way. This may cause a negative feeling on our part
because they avoided eye contact or showed ambivalence to our meeting.

Or, they could be elated from a recent deal they brokered, one in which they
were dishonest. Upon meeting us, they seemed pleasant, friendly, and happy. The
danger if we accept this first impression is that we may find ourselves cheated
in a deal with them in the future and left wondering how he or she could have
been so dishonest.

The fact is, any external circumstance can alter the emotions of a person
masking who they really are. Some would say that feelings _are_ a telling factor and
should be considered with a first impression. That may be true to a certain extent.
However, I would suggest emotions should only be taken into consideration if, after
a trial period of the relationship, you see a pattern of behavior that indicates this
person has difficulty separating their emotion from reality.

The other reason we could consider emotions after a certain period of time
is if the person has difficulty balancing their feelings with the world around
them, which _can_ lead to issues down the road.

2. First impressions do not account for how _we_ are feeling, or what
preconceived notions we may have.

I have been guilty of not taking my own emotions or circumstances into
account many times. After an initial encounter with another individual, I may
draw conclusions about their character or personality, which could be based
mainly on my emotions during the meeting.

We could have had the absolute worst day with few things going our way,
which feeds into our reactions to new situations and people. We could have had
family issues (sickness, problems with children, a death in the family) which are
hard to mask, even if we put on a façade when meeting others for the first time.

As I have grown, it has become a much better practice to spend time with
the other person, to get to know them better, and to allow their consistent actions
and behavior speak louder than my ideas about them. Usually, someone’s real
character will come out eventually, at which time we can decide about whether
we will continue to pursue this relationship-friendship.

```
There is an old lesson in the Bible that says, “Do not judge others, and you
```
