```
THE ART OF COMMUNITY 139 |
```
such as what elementary school they went to, or why they moved from Ohio
to California when they were eight years old. It is at this point I may stop them
and ask them to share a bit more about why they moved from one state or city
to the next.

Here are a few more questions that assist in them sharing their journey or
story:

_What does your dad or mom do that caused the move?
Are your parents still living? If so, where are they and do you get an
opportunity to see them often?_

_Why did you select the college/university you attended?
What was it about your spouse that drew you to them?
How did you meet your girlfriend/boyfriend/spouse?
Do you have any children?
How old are they and what are their names?
What is the best thing going on in your life right now?
What is something you are really looking forward to in your future?
Where was your favorite place you have visited in your travels?_
When someone begins to share their story, inevitably they start to remember
pieces of information they may feel are irrelevant to the conversation. Questions
probe those pieces of information, and the answers can provide deeper insight
into who a person is.

Each of us has a history unique to ourselves. _No one,_ absolutely _no one,_
has experienced the exact same combination of events, experiences, emotions,
or evolution of thought. We try to place ourselves into categories, labels, and/or
people groups, but the truth is, we are all different. We only share certain aspects
of our history that connect us to a category.

You see, we are more than just what job we have. We are more than just
where we live, the color of our skin, or the family we were born into. If we sit
down with each other and build community and connections with others who
we classify as “different” than us, we may be surprised how much we learn
about them, and even ourselves.

The importance of building community cannot be overstated. Sure, there
is some aspect of need. We should network to get what we need or want. But if
we stop there, we are only thinking about us. Our community of relationships is
powerful. In one instant, you may meet someone who has a need. A connection
is revisited in your relationships, and you know that if you can connect this

