---
title: Overcoming Unhealthy Relationships
---

OVERCOMING UNHEALTHY RELATIONSHIPS
{: class="page__topic"}

and the only One that can bring you into that relationship. He is our strength,
our peace, and our hope.

When we stray from this relationship with God and choose not to focus on
it, the weaker our connection to Him. Notice when I said “when we stray”; God
never strays from us. There have been times in my life where I did not do a daily
devotion, did not pray for days at a time, and just came home, turned on the
television, and vegged out. Over time, I found myself asking where God was and
if He heard me when I prayed. I had strayed from my relationship with Him. Do
this for a day or two, and you know it. Do this for a month, and everyone close
to you knows it. Do it for a year, and everyone can see it.

### The Lure of Unhealthy Relationships

Hopefully, now we can better discern if there are unhealthy relationships
that we may need to disconnect from. This is easier said than done! What is it
that draws us toward unhealthy relationships?

This question has baffled me for many years. I now know that I choose
the relationships in my life that I will invest in and which ones I need to let
go of. As I get older, I realize that I don’t have time to battle with unhealthy
relationships.

Growing up and in college, the draw for many of us is to be accepted. If
we become desperate enough, we can compromise our own convictions to _feel_
accepted. Fear of rejection becomes one of the top reasons, in my opinion, for
why we are drawn to unhealthy relationships.

We can also be enticed to enter into unhealthy relationships when we
want to do something that makes us feel good, and we willingly push aside our
convictions to get that feeling. We allow our emotions to drive our decisions in
life and can end up neglecting our relationship with God and shy away from
healthy relationships that encourage us toward healthy living.

Some of us grew up around dysfunction and abuse; it’s all we know. This
actually may require some professional help through a counselor or therapist
who draws from the Bible for wisdom to determine who or what is holding
us back. Others of us are drawn away by sinful actions that we choose to be
a part of, knowing they negatively affect our relationship with God and the
healthy relationships in our lives.

All of us at some point, or even now, have made a choice or are making a
decision, allowing negative, unhealthy relationships to influence us. It is what
we do about it that matters.