```
1
```
# H Introduction I

## F

## The Beginning

I had my first “job” when I was twelve years old. I remember going to
church one Sunday, and my father introduced me to a man named John Kafka.
He held out his hand to shake mine, and as a twelve-year-old, I simply took his
hand, but he shook mine with a death grip. He said to me, “Danny, it is nice to
meet you. May I tell you something that will help you with your future?” I said,
“Yes, sir.” He replied, “Whenever you shake someone’s hand, show confidence.
You squeeze that person’s hand, so they know you are confident. A good, firm
handshake says a lot about who you are to others.” I will never forget that first
lesson he gave me.

My father had always taught me to show respect for others, not to lie, and
to work hard. I still think my dad talked to John Kafka beforehand and asked
him to become a mentor to me at the tender age of twelve. John Kafka was
the president of Pollock Johnny’s, a polish sausage restaurant chain based in
Baltimore, and he owned a house in a more expensive neighborhood. He was
a wealthy man who had worked hard to get to where he was, yet he still wore
clothes from the thrift store. He gave me a job at his house making twenty-eight
dollars every Saturday to weed the rock garden behind his house and on the hill
behind the in-ground pool. It was a tough job, but it strengthened my hands and
arm muscles, so I didn’t have to work so hard to give a firm handshake. My dad
dropped me off before he went to work and picked me up nine hours later.

I would not realize it until later, but John Kafka taught me so much about
the importance of relationship. I learned that every relationship needs to be
mutual; most of the time, we need to work hard at maintaining healthy relation-
ships; and some of the most beneficial relationships can happen through tragic
circumstances.

I will never forget the night. It was a Thursday night, and I had just finished
taking a shower. My dad knocked on the bathroom door and asked if he could
come in. I asked him to tell me through the door since I wasn’t decent. He said
to me that John Kafka had just died that day. He was playing racquetball and

